 This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten,
      or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved.
      Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset . Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions . Legal Statement . Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper . Japanese woman arrested in connection to stabbing death of US airman Master Sgt. Nicholas Vollweiler, 35, was found with stab wounds at his off-base residence in Western Tokyo on Friday and later died at a hospital. (DIANA QUINLAN/U.S. NAVY PHOTO) A Japanese woman was arrested in connection to the death of a U.S. airman last week, who was fatally stabbed while at his off-base residence in Western Tokyo, the Air Force said in a statement. Aria Saito, 27, was arrested by Japanese police on suspicion of attempted murder after Master Sgt. Nicholas Vollweiler, 35, from the 374th Airlift Wing was found with stab wounds on Friday. He later died at a hospital, according to the statement. Police are expected to upgrade the charges, Stars and Stripes reported. Japanese media said Saito allegedly told authorities that she killed Vollweiler because she did not want to end their relationship and that she “stabbed a man I was dating with a knife, aiming at his right neck,” Japanese broadcaster TBS reported according to Stars and Stripes. The 27-year-old also said she planned to kill herself afterward, Japanese media reported. “Master Sgt. Vollweiler was a truly valued Airmen of Team Yokota and he will be dearly missed by our community,” said Col. Otis Jones, 374th Airlift Wing Commander. “His family, friends, fellow defenders, and all of the Yokota community are in our prayers during this heartbreaking time.” The Air Force said it is continuing its investigation into Vollweiler’s death alongside the Japanese National Police. Vollweiler was from the Poconos in Pennsylvania and was stationed at Yokota Air Base in western Japan where he worked as a K-9 instructor, according to WNEP . The Associated Press contributed to this report. Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox Subscribed You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter! This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset . Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions . Legal Statement . Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper .