 Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission. Share this: News Share this: El Chapo’s trial delayed by ‘anxious’ juror who wants off the case By Priscilla DeGregory , Emily Saul and Lia Eustachewich Most Popular Today Submit November 13, 2018 | 12:21pm | Updated November 13, 2018 | 9:08pm The start of El Chapo’s long-awaited trial was thrown into chaos Tuesday thanks to an “anxious and upset” juror who brought a doctor’s note to court to help get her booted off the case. The woman, identified only as juror No. 1, came to court armed with a doctor’s note saying she couldn’t serve on the trial, which could last three to four months, the judge said. see also Juror sobs after being picked for El Chapo's trial “I got a handwritten letter which details medical issues that have been brought about by her selection,” Brooklyn federal Judge Brian Cogan told lawyers. “This person has been anxious and upset since selection … If I were to ask further questions, it will result in a breakdown and crying.” Juror No. 1 burst into tears last week upon learning she was among the seven women and five men picked as jurors in the trial for Joaquin “El Chapo” Guzman, the notorious leader of the dangerous Sinaloa drug cartel. Cogan refused to let her off, saying he didn’t see any “real hardship there.” Six alternates were also selected. Instead of replacing the nervous juror with one of the alternates, lawyers on both sides agreed to select a fresh one, which they’ll do Tuesday morning. Guzman, 61, wore a suit and blue tie and waved to his beauty queen wife, Emma Coronel Aispuro , who smiled back in the heavily secured courtroom. He shook hands with his legal team before taking a seat. A second juror later complained that he’d lose out on income if he continued to serve despite being unemployed. The man was eventually dismissed as well. Related Video El Chapo’s wife stuns as she appears for drug lord’s trial Share this article: Share this: Read Next Doctors hit back at NRA by tweeting grim photos of gun vio... Share Selection Trending Now on NYPost.com This story has been shared 77,282 times. 77,282 This story has been shared 39,191 times. 39,191 This story has been shared 17,184 times. 17,184 This story has been shared 15,461 times. 15,461 This story has been shared 14,759 times. 14,759 what to shop now HP takes up to 45 percent off computers and accessories  for Semi-Annual Sale This at-home sauna for easy detoxing is the self-care you deserve in 2021 This pet insurance alternative covers emergency care for only $19 per month 13 best sunglasses brands to shop ahead of spring 2021 The 9 best breathable face masks for safely working out in Now On Now on Page Six Video Greyhound jumps for joy when owner puts on pants Now On Now on Decider More Stories page six Throne under the bus: Meghan Markle dishes to Oprah about royal pains nypost Meghan Markle's interview was full of bull © 2021 NYP Holdings, Inc. All Rights Reserved Terms of Use Privacy Notice Your Ad Choices Sitemap Your California Privacy Rights Do Not Sell My Personal Information Your California Privacy Rights Do Not Sell My Personal Information