CRASH HORROR Two young men killed after car hits tree outside Ballina, Co Mayo, named locally – and another in critical condition
The horror crash occurred on the Killala Road on the outskirts of Ballina at around 11.15pm last night TWO men who died after the car they were travelling in hit a tree in Co Mayo last night have been named.

The horror crash occurred on the Killala Road on the outskirts of Ballina at around 11.15pm. The crash happened after a car hit a tree on the outskirts of Ballina The two men, named locally as Jack O’Hora, 21, and Ricky Langdon, 28, were travelling in a black Audi vehicle when it crashed.

A third man, 29, remains in a critical condition in Mayo General Hospital.

Gardai have closed off the road for a forensic examination. The car's wreckage is removed from the scene A garda statement earlier said: "Gardai in Ballina are investigating a single vehicle fatal road traffic collision that occurred on the Killala Rd (R314) on the outskirts of Ballina at approximately 11.15pm last night.

"A male in his late 20s was fatally injured when the car he was travelling in collided with a tree. He was pronounced dead at the scene.

"Two other males in their 20s who were also in the car were taken to Mayo General Hospital with serious injuries and one was pronounced dead later. One of the men remains in a critical condition in Mayo General Hospital "There were three occupants in the vehicle, two have been pronounced dead and one remains in what is described as a serious condition in hospital.

"This stretch of road is currently closed to facilitate an examination by Garda Forensic Collision Investigators and local diversions are in place.

"Gardai wish to appeal for witnesses to contact Ballina Garda Station on 096 20560, The Garda Confidential Telephone Line 1800 666 111 or any Garda Station." Officers this afternoon renewed their appeal for witnesses particularly drivers in the area with dashcam footage.

A spokesperson added: "The road remains closed to traffic and local diversions are in place.

"Gardai are also appealing to the drivers of any vehicles that may have passed through the townland of Kilmoremoy close to the Costcutters Supermarket, between 10.20pm and 11.15pm, and who may have dash-cam footage, to contact Ballina Garda Station (096) 20560 or the Garda Confidential Line 1800 666 111."