 Tourist dies after being bitten by cat with rabies in Morocco BY Fiona Kelly November 12, 2018 An English tourist has died after being bitten by a cat with rabies while on holiday in Morocco. Public Health England (PHE) confirmed that the UK resident was bitten by a cat while visiting the African country and subsequently contracted rabies. The disease is very rare but serious infection off the nerves and brain. Once a person begins showing signs and symptoms of rabies, the disease is nearly always fatal. Colleaguses, family members and health workers of the tourist have been assessed, but the PHE insists there is no risk to the public. There are no documented cases of human to human transmission of rabies. The disease is usually passed by a bite from an infected animal. Rabies does not circulate in either wild or domestic animals in Ireland or the UK - but between the years 2000 and 2017 five UK residents became infected with rabies after animal exposures abroad.   Dr Mary Ramsay, head of immunisations at PHE, said: "This is an important reminder of the precautions people should take when travelling to countries where rabies is present. "If you are bitten, scratched or licked by an animal you must wash the wound or site of exposure with plenty of soap and water and seek medical advice without delay. "There is no risk to the wider public in relation to this case but, as a precautionary measure, health workers and close contacts are being assessed and offered vaccination when necessary." You can have your pets vaccinated against rabies and there are vaccinations available if you are travelling to countries where the disease is common. Tags: Cat Bite, Morroco, Rabies Share this article: Fiona Kelly See more articles by Fiona Kelly Want Buzz.ie news updates? Sign up to our newsletter!: Related Stories Seven men arrested after extortion attempt foiled by gardai By Ruairi Scott Byrne /  18 minutes ago Grieving mum issues desperate plea to help bring son Paul Gallagher's killer to justice By Buzz Contributor /  43 minutes ago 'It’s not fair what’s happening to him': English family helped by James McClean urge trolls to end vile abuse By Buzz Contributor /  1 hour ago Two arrested for connection to pharmacy robbery in Cork By Dylan O'Neill /  1 hour ago Domestic violence charity purchase safe house with €40,000 donation By Dylan O'Neill /  2 hours ago Meghan and Harry interview goes further than anyone expected By Dylan O'Neill /  3 hours ago Buzz.ie is Irelands' newest, best and brightest Website. For advertising contact sales@buzz.ie . Got a story? Contact news@buzz.ie. Welcome to Buzz.ie We use cookies to improve your experience on our site and to show you relevant advertising. Our partners will collect data and use cookies for ad personalisation and measurement. You can change your choice at any time in our privacy policy. You may see ads that are less relevant to you. These ads use cookies, but not for personalisation. You can change your choice at any time in our privacy policy. Learn how our partners collect and use data: