 Climate change led to the demise of the ancient Indus valley civilisation that flourished in the Himalayan foothills 4,000 years ago By Harry Pettit For Mailonline Published: 18:00 GMT, 13 November 2018 | Updated: 19:16 GMT, 13 November 2018  188 View comments  The mystery surrounding what killed off the ancient Indus valley civilisation may finally have been solved. Scientists say that climate change led to the advanced people's demise by driving them out of their cities, which were among the earliest ever built. As seasonal rainfall dried up due to global warming, the Indus were forced into villages in the Himalayan foothills 4,000 years ago. Within the next millennium these isolated village groups died off as their water supply diminished, researchers said. They warned the find spells trouble for modern groups in the Middle East and Africa forced from their land by climate change. Scroll down for video Pictured is an archaeological site in Pakistan that was once a settlement built by the Indus valley civilisation 'It's remarkable, and there's a powerful lesson for today,' said study coauthor Dr Liviu Giosan, a researcher at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Massachusetts. 'If you look at Syria and Africa, the migration out of those areas has some roots in climate change. 'This is just the beginning - sea level rise due to climate change can lead to huge migrations from low lying regions like Bangladesh, or from hurricane-prone regions in the southern US. RELATED ARTICLES Share this article 'Back then, the Harappans could cope with change by moving, but today, you'll run into all sorts of borders. Political and social convulsions can then follow.' The Indus Civilisation, also known as the Harappans, was an advanced Bronze Age society that thrived in the Indus River Valley of what is now modern Pakistan. Along with Ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia, it was one of three early civilisations of the Old World. The Indus Valley Civilisation possessed considerable skills when it came to town planning and building, including toilets and baths (pictured), which were connected to a brick drainage system that ran along the streets Among their settlements, researchers have previously uncovered the world's first known toilets, along with complex stone weights, drilled gemstone necklaces and exquisitely carved seal stone. The civilisation died out around 4,000 years ago, and researchers have spent decades trying to understand why. Researchers studied sediment samples taken from the ocean floor at several sites in the Arabian Sea off Pakistan's coast. WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT THE INDUS VALLEY CIVILISATION? The Indus Civilisation, also known as the Harappan Civilisation, was an advanced Bronze Age society. It developed mainly in the northwestern regions of South Asia from 5,300 to 3,300 years ago. The Indus cities were at their richest between and 2600 and 1900 BC. Along with Ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia, it was one of three early civilisations of the Old World. The Indus occupied the Indus River Valley area in modern Pakistan and India The Empire stretched from the Arabian Sea to the Ganges, over what is now Pakistan, India and Afghanistan. At its peak, the civilisation may have had a population of more than 5 million, making up 10 per cent of the world's population. Among their settlements, researchers have uncovered the world's first known toilets, along with complex stone weights, drilled gemstone necklaces and exquisitely carved seal stone. Etched in of these artefacts is an unusual and complex script, which researchers are racing to decipher. Why the Civilisation disappeared around 3,000 years ago remains a msytery, but experts have suggested war, famine or even climate change could have been responsible. They examined fragments of ancient DNA found in the sediments to give them clues about what organisms thrived in the region during the summer and winter. 'The seafloor near the mouth of the Indus is a very low-oxygen environment, so whatever grows and dies in the water is very well preserved in the sediment,' Dr Giosan said. 'You can basically get fragments of DNA of nearly anything that's lived there.' Their findings showed that winter monsoons in the area intensified around 2500 BC, while summer monsoons dried up. This was evident in the sediment DNA as strong winds brought nutrients from the deeper ocean to the surface, feeding a surge in plant and animal life. WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT THE INDUS' CITIES? The Indus Valley Civilisation possessed considerable skills when it came to town planning and building. The cities of Harappa and Mohenjo-Daro are laid out in grids, with individual homes supplied with water from wells and waste water diverted to covered drains. This is perhaps the world's first known sanitation system. Some houses had two storeys, a bath and a courtyard. The needs of citizens were catered for with municipal buildings, marketplaces, dockyards, granaries, warehouses and protective walls to shield inhabitants from floods and attack. Unlike in other early human civilisations, no evidence of temples or palaces have been found, yet evidence suggests the Indus had a social hierarchy. It's thought most city dwellers were traders or artisans, with elaborate pottery, beads and metalwork recovered. Likewise, weaker winds other times of year provide fewer nutrients, causing slightly less productivity in the waters offshore. By 1800 BC, the Indus had abandoned their cities as agriculture in the huge urban areas became impossible, moving to smaller villages in the Himalayan foothills. The rains in the foothills were enough to hold the rural Harapans over for the next millennium, but even those eventually dried up, likely contributing to their demise. "We can't say that they disappeared entirely due to climate - at the same time, the Indo-Aryan culture was arriving in the region with Iron Age tools and horses and carts,' Dr Giosan said. 'But it's very likely that the winter monsoon played a role.' Share or comment on this article: Climate change led to the demise of the ancient Indus valley civilisation Most watched News videos More top stories DON'T MISS GADGET REVIEWS TOP DISCOUNTS OF THE WEEK Next story 'Britain stands with our Queen': Tory MPs lead the backlash against Prince Harry and Meghan's 'appalling' accusations of racism against the Royal family and accuse couple of 'detonating nuclear weapon' with the allegations Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group