 51 pilot whales die in new mass stranding in New Zealand as spate of deaths linked to warming seas Follow the author of this article Follow the topics within this article F ifty-one pilot whales died Friday in a mass stranding in New Zealand, less than a week after 145 pilot whales and nine pygmy killer whales perished in two other unrelated strandings. In the latest stranding, up to 90 pilot whales beached themselves late Thursday at Hanson Bay on the remote Chatham Islands, said the Department of Conservation. When staff arrived, they found up to 40 of the whales had refloated themselves but another 50 had died on the beach. The department said one beached whale remained alive, which staff decided to euthanize due to its poor condition. The Chatham Islands are about 800 kilometres (500 miles) east of New Zealand's main islands and are home to about 600 people. Last weekend, 145 pilot whales died on Stewart Island. By the time conservation workers arrived there, about 75 of the whales were already dead and they decided to euthanize the others by shooting them due to their poor condition and the remote location. On Sunday, 10 pygmy killer whales were found stranded at Ninety Mile Beach on the North Island. D espite the efforts of 200 staff and volunteers, who managed to refloat eight of the whales after transporting them to a beach where conditions were calmer, all but one of the whales ended up stranding themselves again by Wednesday. Those whales were also euthanised. D ave Lundquist, a technical adviser on marine species, said in a video released by the Conservation Department that there was no evidence to suggest the strandings were linked. "You're talking about strandings across the entire breadth of New Zealand in a very short period of time, which naturally does cause everyone to reflect on whether those might have something to do with one another," he said. Karen Stockin, a marine mammal scientist at Massey University, said while whale strandings were relatively common in New Zealand, the cluster of incidents in such a short timeframe was unusual. She also pointed out that species such as pygmy killer whales and sperm whales did not normally beach, unlike pilot whales, which regularly wash up on New Zealand beaches in the summer months. Ms Stockin, who is an expert consultant on strandings for the International Whaling Commission, said it added to a string of strange whale behaviour over the past year. In addition to a rise in strandings, she said a number of species had appeared that were not normally seen in New Zealand waters, including gargantuan blue whales in the Hauraki Gulf near Auckland. Stockin said New Zealand was currently experiencing some of the warmest ocean temperatures on record and she believed it was affecting whale behaviour. "We've had an unusual week, which we haven't got to the bottom of, and it's fair to say it's been an entirely unusual year," she told AFP. "I suspect a lot of that has been driven by the warmer sea surface temperatures that we're seeing at the moment. "We definitely have a spike in temperatures, that's likely affecting where the prey is moving and as a consequence we're seeing prey moving and (whale) species following." Related Topics Follow The Telegraph Follow The Telegraph News latest Comment: SNP's poll ratings have tanked - and about time too Live Coronavirus latest news: Facemasks in lessons not compulsory due to pupil anxiety, says minister Live Travel news latest: 'Exit permit' for travellers comes into force today Live Harry and Meghan's Oprah interview: Pressure on Buckingham Palace to investigate racism allegations Live Politics latest news: David Frost 'playing games around Brexit', claims former mandarin Myanmar's military occupy hospitals as trade unions call for a general strike Comment: Harry and Meghan have well and truly trashed the Royal Family's reputation in America Holi Festival 2021: how the thwarting of a Hindu demon king led to the colourful celebration How the Spring Equinox marks the changing seasons St Patrick's Day 2021: shamrocks, snakes and how a British slave became Ireland's patron saint Watch: 'The interview can't be undone': Why there's no way back for Meghan, Harry and the Royal family Oprah with Meghan and Harry interview review: Sussexes deliver enough bombshells to sink a flotilla Forget hiding behind the sofa, the Royal family needed a bullet-proof vest as Harry and Meghan let rip Harry and Meghan's Oprah interview bombshells: They accuse Royal family of racism, reveal Duchess had suicidal thoughts and say Kate made Meghan cry Key quotes: Meghan and Harry on mental health, family relations and Archie's skin tone 'Kate made me cry': Duchess of Sussex claims it was the Duchess of Cambridge who upset her in row over bridesmaids dresses Harry and Meghan got married in secret three days before their fairytale public wedding Duchess of Sussex reveals she contemplated suicide when pregnant due to 'stress' and 'isolation' 'It's a girl': Harry and Meghan reveal gender of second child in Oprah Winfrey interview Harry and Meghan announce they are expecting a baby girl - latest news on due date and royal name odds Princess Diana foresaw Prince Harry's departure from Royal family, Duke claims We've noticed you're adblocking. We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism. We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future. Thank you for your support. Need help? Visit our adblocking instructions page.