 British teenager arrested in Egypt on charges of spying Follow the author of this article Follow the topics within this article A British teenager has been arrested in Egypt on suspicion of spying, his family has said. Muhammad Abul-Kasem, 19, was detained at Alexandria airport after he was searched and a picture of a military plane was discovered on his phone. Mr Abdul-Kasem, originally from Cheetham Hill, Manchester, had been travelling from Libya to the Red Sea city with a friend on November 21. His family said the teenager had been accused of “collecting information of a military facility” and was currently being held in a jail cell. They say Mr Abul-Kasem had taken a photograph of the airport from the plane window as he arrived in Egypt. “Everything is happening so fast,” said his cousin Shareen Nawaz. “All within a few days he’s in court being accused of being a spy. His parents are going out of their mind,” she said. “It’s madness - is it that easy being a spy?” M r Abul-Kasem has appeared in court twice since his arrest, however, the evidence against him remains unclear. Mr Abdul-Kasem, who was due to return to the UK next year to finish his A-levels, moved to Libya two years with his family to support an elderly relative. He and his Libyan friend booked a hotel in Egypt together ahead of their visit. Both are now in Egyptian detention. T he family has started a petition calling on the British government and politicians to help release Mr Abul-kasem. The British Foreign Office said it was "seeking more information from the Egyptian authorities following the arrest of a British person in Alexandria, as well as permission for consular access". The case comes to light just days after British academic Matthew Hedges was pardoned from a life sentence in the United Arab Emirates on charges of espionage. The 31-year-old Durham University PhD student was pardoned and allowed to return to his family on Tuesday following strong diplomatic pressure from London. Related Topics Follow The Telegraph Follow The Telegraph News latest Comment: SNP's poll ratings have tanked - and about time too Live Coronavirus latest news: Facemasks in lessons not compulsory due to pupil anxiety, says minister Live Travel news latest: 'Exit permit' for travellers comes into force today Live Harry and Meghan's Oprah interview: Pressure on Buckingham Palace to investigate racism allegations Live Politics latest news: David Frost 'playing games around Brexit', claims former mandarin Myanmar's military occupy hospitals as trade unions call for a general strike Comment: Harry and Meghan have well and truly trashed the Royal Family's reputation in America Holi Festival 2021: how the thwarting of a Hindu demon king led to the colourful celebration How the Spring Equinox marks the changing seasons St Patrick's Day 2021: shamrocks, snakes and how a British slave became Ireland's patron saint Watch: 'The interview can't be undone': Why there's no way back for Meghan, Harry and the Royal family Oprah with Meghan and Harry interview review: Sussexes deliver enough bombshells to sink a flotilla Forget hiding behind the sofa, the Royal family needed a bullet-proof vest as Harry and Meghan let rip Harry and Meghan's Oprah interview bombshells: They accuse Royal family of racism, reveal Duchess had suicidal thoughts and say Kate made Meghan cry Key quotes: Meghan and Harry on mental health, family relations and Archie's skin tone 'Kate made me cry': Duchess of Sussex claims it was the Duchess of Cambridge who upset her in row over bridesmaids dresses Harry and Meghan got married in secret three days before their fairytale public wedding Duchess of Sussex reveals she contemplated suicide when pregnant due to 'stress' and 'isolation' 'It's a girl': Harry and Meghan reveal gender of second child in Oprah Winfrey interview Harry and Meghan announce they are expecting a baby girl - latest news on due date and royal name odds Princess Diana foresaw Prince Harry's departure from Royal family, Duke claims We've noticed you're adblocking. We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism. We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future. Thank you for your support. Need help? Visit our adblocking instructions page.