 Climate change could trigger an 'extinction domino effect' that would annihilate all life on Earth, chilling report warns By Mark Prigg For Dailymail.com Published: 22:12 GMT, 29 November 2018 | Updated: 22:22 GMT, 29 November 2018  484 View comments  Climate change increases the risk of an 'extinction domino effect' that could annihilate all life on Earth, researchers have warned. The theory, known as 'co-extinctions', means an organism dies out because it depends on another doomed species. Researchers say the end of all life is a worst case scenario, but warn the 'domino effect' could dramatically increase the risks of climate change - and found 5-6 degrees of average warming globally is enough to wipe out most life on the planet. Scroll down for video The European Commission study simulated 2,000 'virtual earths' linking animal and plant species, and found the loss of one species could trigger catastrophic knock on effects. WHAT IS 'CO-ENTINCTION'? Researchers use the example of a plant's flower pollinated by only one species of bee. If the bee becomes extinct, so too will the plant eventually. The loss of one species can amplify the effects of environmental change on the remainder, the report found. 'Even the most resilient species will inevitably fall victim to the synergies among extinction drivers as extreme stresses drive ecosystems to collapse,' says lead author Dr Giovanni Strona of the European Commission's Joint Research Centre based in Ispra in northern Italy. Researchers from Italy and Australia simulated 2,000 'virtual earths' linking animal and plant species. Using sophisticated modelling, they subjected the virtual earths to catastrophic environmental changes that ultimately annihilated all life. The catastrophes they simulated included runaway global warming, scenarios of 'nuclear winter' following the detonation of multiple atomic bombs, and a large asteroid impact. 'What we were trying to test is whether the variable tolerances to extreme global heating or cooling by different species are enough to explain overall extinction rates,' RELATED ARTICLES Share this article 'But because all species are connected in the web of life, our paper demonstrates that even the most tolerant species ultimately succumb to extinction when the less-tolerant species on which they depend disappear.' 'Failing to take into account these co-extinctions therefore underestimates the rate and magnitude of the loss of entire species from events like climate change by up to 10 times,' says co-author Professor Bradshaw of Flinders University in South Australia. Professor Bradshaw and Dr Strona say that their virtual scenarios warn humanity not to underestimate the impact of co-extinctions. 'Not taking into account this domino effect gives an unrealistic and exceedingly optimistic perspective about the impact of future climate change', warns Professor Bradshaw. CLIMATE CHANGE 'BIGGEST GLOBAL HEALTH THREAT' Rising heat and wilder weather linked to climate change make it 'the biggest global health threat of the 21st century', with hundreds of millions more people already suffering in the last two decades, medical officials warned Wednesday. In a hard-hitting report published by The Lancet medical journal, scientists and health experts said climate change impacts - from heatwaves to worsening storms, floods and fires - were surging and threatened to overwhelm health systems. 'That's the thing that really keeps me up at night,' said Nick Watts, executive director of The Lancet Countdown, an annual report tracking connections between public health and climate change. Storms and floods, for instance, do not only cause direct injuries but can also shut down hospitals, spur disease outbreaks and produce lingering mental health problems, as people lose their homes, he said. Wildfires, similarly, hurt and uproot people, but also dramatically worsen air pollution in broad areas. The Lancet report, produced by doctors, academics and policy experts from 27 organisations around the world, called for fast action to curb climate change and prepare global health systems for growing challenges. 'A rapidly changing climate has dire implications for every aspect of human life, exposing vulnerable populations to extremes of weather, altering patterns of infectious disease and compromising food security, safe drinking water and clean air,' it warned.   'By comparing scenarios of extinctions based only on species’ environmental tolerances with others accounting also for co-extinctions, we show that neglecting to consider the cascading effect of biodiversity loss leads to a large overestimation of the robustness of planetary life to global change,' the team wrote. 'Another really important discovery was that in the case of global warming in particular, the combination of intolerance to heat combined with co-extinctions mean that 5-6 degrees of average warming globally is enough to wipe out most life on the planet', says Dr Strona. Professor Bradshaw further warns that their work shows how climate warming creates extinction cascades in the worst possible way, when compared to random extinctions or even from the stresses arising from nuclear winter.  Share or comment on this article: Climate change could trigger an 'extinction domino effect' that would annihilate all life on Earth Most watched News videos More top stories DON'T MISS GADGET REVIEWS TOP DISCOUNTS OF THE WEEK Next story Oprah interview bombshells: Meghan claims she was suicidal when she was five months pregnant, Kate made HER cry and Royals refused to make Archie a prince because they were worried how 'dark' he would be Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group