 'Very few' Northern trains on Saturdays in December Northern will run less than a third of its services on Saturdays in the run up to Christmas, with "very few" trains in the evening. Passengers in the north of England will face major disruption during the latest round of strikes on 8, 15, 22 and 29 December . One tweeted that the recent service offered by the operator had been "absolutely shambolic". RMT members are embroiled in a lengthy dispute about train guards. The Department for Transport (DfT) urged members to call off the "needless" industrial action. 'Totally unacceptable' Northern said it will run about 700 trains on each of the strike days - just under 30% of its normal service - with "very few trains" after 17:00 GMT. It is likely to affect those visiting the Christmas market in Manchester, as well as those travelling for football matches and concerts in other major cities including Liverpool, Leeds, Huddersfield, Newcastle and Sheffield. Engineering works are also taking place, affecting trains at Bolton and Wigan. Passenger Stephanie Williams tweeted that Northern's services in the last three years had been "absolutely shambolic and totally unacceptable". Jane Brazzill tweeted: "So much for being able to visit the Christmas markets - we have no train services at all on Saturday from Irlam to Manchester." @northernassist how is this acceptable?!!! We are treated like second class citizens up in the North. The service we’ve received for the last 3 years has been absolutely shambolic and totally unacceptable! Transport for the North, which manages the Northern franchise with the DfT through the Rail North Partnership, said it backs the union on maintaining a second member of staff on trains. But it called on the operator and the RMT to "begin meaningful discussions as soon as possible" as passengers "need reliability". Its chief executive, Barry White, said: "Businesses across the north... are reaching their busiest time of year. "Christmas markets are transforming our bustling centres and people want to enjoy all our economies have to offer. "But this is being hampered by uncertainty and disruption on the rail network." Events likely to be affected: Manchester's Christmas markets, with no Northern services to Liverpool, Warrington Central, Kirkby and Rose Hill Marple. Football fixtures: Concerts The DfT has pledged its support for a second staff member on trains and added: "We believe this commitment should ensure that the needless RMT industrial action on Northern comes to an end." Northern said it "welcomes the commitment" from the government and TfN and there was "no reason" for the RMT to continue striking. Please look at Northern Rail immediately, the Saturday strikes and poor weekday service needs to end NOW!!! RMT general secretary Mick Cash said: "We thank the public for their continuing support and understanding. These disputes are all about safety and passenger service on Britain's increasingly violent and dangerous railways." He said the union "awaits any new proposals" from Northern which maintain "the same level of safety, security and access that they enjoy at the moment based on the guarantee of the guard on every train." Earlier this month Northern said leaves on tracks and strikes had caused its worst punctuality figures for over two years. It follows timetable "carnage" over the summer , which saw the firm cancel 165 daily services. Related Topics More on this story Christmas markets hit by rail strikes Leaves blamed for rail delay 'misery' Three more Northern rail strikes planned Rail crisis: Your train horror stories Related Internet Links Northern RMT Department for Transport Transport for the North - TfNT From other local news sites Grants for household energy efficiency improvements now available until September Burtonwood singer-songwriter needs your help in Open Mic UK Strong winds set to hit Bolton with weather warning issued Man confesses to arson attack which wrecked Wigan pub Inquest opens into Prestwich mum at centre of murder inquiry Man arrested in connection with string of sexual assaults on Trafford canal towpaths Information about BBC links to other news sites Top Stories Meghan: Royal had concerns about son's skin colour The duchess tells Oprah Winfrey that a family member talked about how "dark" her baby's skin might be. Meghan 'didn't want to be alive any more' Huge explosion hurts hundreds in Equatorial Guinea Features The woman with HIV helping others have a 'good death' What's causing vaccine delays in some Asian countries? Covid: 'My family told me to marry at 14' George Floyd trial to start with hunt for jurors 'The first black fairytale' gets modern reworking 'Deepfake is the future of content creation' The ballerina dancing on ice for a real ‘swan lake’ Video The ballerina dancing on ice for a real ‘swan lake’ The surprising behaviour that stunned scientists Could lab-grown meat help tackle climate change? Video Could lab-grown meat help tackle climate change? Elsewhere on the BBC Lyrics quiz Have you been getting these songs wrong? Feeling hot What happens to your body in extreme heat? Most Read 12 things we learned from Meghan's Oprah interview 1 Billionaire Mackenzie Scott marries science teacher 2 Meghan 'didn't want to be alive any more' 3 Switzerland votes to ban face coverings in public 4 French MP and billionaire Dassault dies in crash 5 Huge explosion hurts hundreds in Equatorial Guinea 6 Banksy to auction hospital art for NHS 7 Covid: 'My family told me to marry at 14' 8 China says manufacturing 'greatness' still years away 9 'Deepfake is the future of content creation' 10 BBC News Services © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.