  Business & Financial News, U.S & International Breaking News Iran reaches out to Asian clients for trade resumption Iran has quietly moved record amounts of crude oil to top client China in recent months, while India's state refiners have added Iranian oil to their annual import plans on the assumption that U.S. sanctions on the OPEC supplier will soon ease, according to six industry sources and Refinitiv data. Yemen's Houthis attack Saudi oil heartland with drones, missiles Meghan accuses UK royals of racism, says 'didn't want to be alive' Pandemic tames Airbnb in Europe's tourist hotspots - for now Rush to bitcoin? Not so fast, say keepers of corporate coffers THE WIRE Panasonic to buy Blue Yonder for $6.5 billion in biggest deal since 2011: Nikkei Swiss agree to outlaw facial coverings in 'burqa ban' vote Special Report: How Trump administration left indelible mark on U.S. immigration courts Exclusive: Canada eyes tighter rules for grow-your-own pot producers War crimes court orders record $30 million compensation for Congo victims Harley borrows Detroit's used-car playbook to pursue younger riders Dollar perched at three-and-a-half month highs on firmer U.S. yields Pandemic tames Airbnb in Europe's tourist hotspots - for now Two protesters killed in Myanmar, shops and factories closed Fashion giant H&M pauses placing new orders in Myanmar Heineken replaces chief financial officer after savings plan launch Britain's M&S expands online business to over 100 markets English children head back to school after two months of home learning Nasdaq futures slide 2% on inflation jitters Brent hits $70 for first time since pandemic began after Saudi attack Deliveroo kicks off landmark London IPO after bumper 2020 Game of drones: Chinese giant DJI hit by U.S. tensions, staff defections Quantum computing provider IonQ to go public via $2 billion SPAC deal EU says it agrees post-Brexit WTO agriculture quotas with U.S. Meghan accuses UK royals of racism, says 'didn't want to be alive'  English children head back to school after two months of home learning Thailand to reduce quarantine period for vaccinated travellers India seeks funds from Quad alliance to match China's vaccine push: source  Featured Aerospace & Defense Game of drones: Chinese giant DJI hit by U.S. tensions Environment Caribbean refinery to test Biden's promises on poverty and pollution INTERNATIONAL WOMEN'S DAY 'Not running away': Women fighting on Britain's COVID-19 front line Tokyo 2020 How 110,000 Olympic volunteers put their lives on hold SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Cambodia's dwindling fish stocks put spotlight on changing rivers  More Top News World shares ease as yields and oil ring inflation alarm World shares dipped on Monday as the U.S. Senate's passage of a $1.9 trillion stimulus bill put fresh pressure on Treasuries and tech stocks with lofty valuations, raising inflation jitters. From Florida to 'Frisco, Americans flock to movies, bars and ballparks after winter of worry From the crack of the baseball bat in Florida to clinking of cocktails in San Francisco bars, the sounds of spring are in the air as Americans start to return to many of the beloved pastimes they were forced to abandon 12 months ago. Panasonic to buy Blue Yonder for $6.5 billion in biggest deal since 2011: Nikkei Panasonic Corp will buy U.S. supply-chain software firm Blue Yonder for 700 billion yen ($6.45 billion), in the Japanese electronics firm's biggest acquisition since 2011, the Nikkei reported on Monday. Two protesters killed in Myanmar, shops and factories closed Two demonstrators were killed by gunshot wounds to the head in Myanmar on Monday, witnesses said, while shops, factories and banks were closed in the main city Yangon as part of the protests against the country's military rulers. U.S. House set to vote on bills to expand gun background checks The U.S. House of Representatives is set to vote on Wednesday on a pair of bills to expand background checks before gun purchases, two years after a similar House effort failed to make it through the Senate. Two-thirds of tropical rainforest destroyed or degraded globally, NGO says Humans have degraded or destroyed roughly two-thirds of the world's original tropical rainforest cover, new data reveals – raising alarm that a key natural buffer against climate change is quickly vanishing. Reuters Pictures How the pandemic has affected women around the world Photos of the week  Advertisement Business Harley borrows Detroit's used-car playbook to pursue younger riders Fashion giant H&M pauses placing new orders in Myanmar Heineken replaces chief financial officer after savings plan launch Markets Dollar perched at three-and-a-half month highs on firmer U.S. yields Nasdaq futures slide 2% on inflation jitters EU says it agrees post-Brexit WTO agriculture quotas with U.S. World Swiss agree to outlaw facial coverings in 'burqa ban' vote War crimes court orders record $30 million compensation for Congo victims French billionaire politician Olivier Dassault killed in helicopter crash Technology Deliveroo kicks off landmark London IPO after bumper 2020 Game of drones: Chinese giant DJI hit by U.S. tensions, staff defections Quantum computing provider IonQ to go public via $2 billion SPAC deal Politics Special Report: How Trump administration left indelible mark on U.S. immigration courts Biden marks Selma anniversary with order to expand voting access Top New York Democrats urge Cuomo to resign over sexual harassment allegations Deals Isagro shares soar after Gowan announces tender offer Exclusive: Eni could list minority stake in new retail-renewable business - source DuPont to buy Laird Performance Materials for $2.3 billion Have a news tip? Reuters provides several ways to securely and confidentially share information and materials with our journalists. Signup for our newsletter Subscribe to our daily curated newsletter to receive the latest exclusive Reuters coverage delivered to your inbox. Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters , is the world’s largest international multimedia news provider reaching more than one billion people every day. Reuters provides trusted business, financial, national, and international news to professionals via Thomson Reuters desktops, the world's media organizations, and directly to consumers at Reuters.com and via Reuters TV.  Learn more about Thomson Reuters products: All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.