 Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset . Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions . Legal Statement . Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper . This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. FAQ - Updated Privacy Policy Multiple dog food brands recalled for elevated vitamin D Petco helping your dog, cat eat healthier Petco CEO Ron Coughlin on the company's plans to stop selling dog and cat foods with artificial ingredients. Sunshine Mills — the maker of multiple dog food brands — has issued a voluntary recall for three of its brands due to potentially elevated levels of Vitamin D — which could make your dog sick. Evolve Puppy, Sportman’s Pride Large Breed Puppy and Triumph Chicken and Rice Dog Food with the “Best Buy Date Code of November 1, 2018 through November 8, 2019” have all been affected in the recall, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) said. “Consumers should stop feeding the products listed above.  Dogs ingesting elevated levels of vitamin D may exhibit symptoms such as vomiting, loss of appetite, increased thirst, increased urination, excessive drooling, and weight loss,” the agency warned. The FDA added that consuming too much vitamin D can lead to serious health issues, including renal dysfunction and kidney failure in dogs. Pet owners, who have purchased any of the products affected should dispose of it or return it to the retailer for a full refund. No other Evolve, Sportsman’s Pride or Triumph products are affected by this recall. Click here for a list of all the products affected. Markets Latest on Fox Business Ex-Chick-fil-A leader: International Women's Day -- 5 skills female leaders must hone to crush their careers Stocks lower as inflation worries, higher gas prices drag down markets Greensill’s key clients included West Virginia Gov. Jim Justice’s coal company Your Money What is a settled account and why is it still on my credit report? How to get approved for a mortgage in 2021 after getting rejected Today's mortgage refinance rates — 30-year rates sit at the lowest seen in 13 days | March 5, 2021 Today's mortgage rates slip back under 3% | March 5 2021 How to know if mortgage refinancing is for you, according to experts Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset . Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions . Legal Statement . Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper . This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. FAQ - Updated Privacy Policy