 Ohio school won't accept religion as an excuse not to vaccinate children amid measles and chickenpox outbreaks A school in Cleveland, Ohio, is no longer allowing religious beliefs to serve as an excuse for parents to not have their children vaccinated following measles outbreaks in New York and a chickenpox outbreak at a school in Asheville, N.C. The measles outbreak is affecting an Orthodox Jewish community in New York City and has over 100 cases. Similarly, the area in which the chickenpox outbreak is occurring in North Carolina has a large number of religious vaccination exemptions. “There’s really no good credible science for someone not to be vaccinated,” Dr. Baruch Fertel of the Cleveland Clinic told Toledo, Ohio, news station WTOL . “We see from these outbreaks that it can just spread like wildfire and cause harm.” The Hebrew Academy of Cleveland sent a letter home to parents earlier this month stating that students were no longer exempt from vaccinations, even if the practice of vaccination went against their religious beliefs. “We recognize that there are families that have strong views on both sides of this issue,” the letter from school leaders read. “However, this is not an area where we can accommodate any deviation from this new protocol.” The letter goes on to state that the only exception to vaccinating a child would be if a physician certifies that vaccination is medically contraindicated — which is rare. “This is particularly important, as there are students in our school for whom it is medically unsafe to be vaccinated. Consequently, it is crucial that we ensure maximum vaccination rates across our student body.” Depending on a student’s grade, the state of Ohio requires six vaccinations, which include polio, chickenpox and measles. The flu shot may be added in the future. “Choosing not to vaccinate, yes it’s a personal decision, but on the other hand, it can affect other people if one becomes affected,” Dr. Fertel told the outlet, adding that some people choose not to vaccinate “because they may have read some medical literature that raised some questions,” but he assures parents that “that literature has really been discredited.” The Hebrew Academy of Cleveland did not immediately respond to Yahoo Lifestyle’s requests for comment. Read more from Yahoo Lifestyle: WWE star Nia Jax brushes off fat-shaming: ‘Nobody can shame me, I am beautiful and completely blessed’ Family of Santa Fe High School shooting victim sues alleged gunman’s parents: ‘No other parent should ever have to experience this unbearable grief’ In case you missed it: These crazy Cyber Week deals are still going strong Follow us on Instagram , Facebook , and Twitter for nonstop inspiration delivered fresh to your feed, every day.  TRENDING Teacher denied paid leave after stillbirth Shamed for their body hair, Desi women are now challenging racist standards Homeless Americans fear vaccine conspiracies. Here's how cities are intervening. Kim Kardashian has 'empathy' for Britney Spears, says pregnancy shaming 'made me so insecure' How the COVID-19 vaccine sparked a fashion trend Latest Stories Elle Macpherson, 56, bares all in swimming pool shoot: 'Still got it after all these decades' The Australian supermodel is keeping up her claim to "The Body" nickname. Sharon Stone stuns in black bustier ahead of her 63rd birthday: 'Va va voom' The actress, who turns 63 on March 10, soaks up the sun in her sultry shoot. Gabrielle Union, 48, poses in nude strapless bra: 'Come through with the flesh tone!' On Thursday, the 48-year-old actress shared several pictures of herself wearing a neutral brown seamless strapless bra by Lively in front of a blue floral wallpaper. The AquaSonic whitening toothbrush has earned over 27,500 five-star Amazon ratings—and it's over 70 percent off Now's the time to invest in a whiter smile—this wildly popular electric toothbrush is only $37, down from $140! Black indie artist sees artwork, a Nipsey Hussle portrait, sold by Walmart — without permission, she says “People were tagging me on social media to congratulate me on a collaboration that I had no idea about,” Rose, of Colorado, tells Yahoo Life. “I would have never known had it not been for social media.” TikToker behind viral tortilla trick reveals new food hack Tik Toker who made trends like the tortilla trick and baked feta pasta go viral is revealing a new recipe — breakfast in a mug. Is this the new normal? Risqué ad slammed for 'woke marketing' Suitsupply has a history of shocking customers with its revealing commericials. Why the CDC thinks it's time to prepare for a possible zombie apocalypse Back in the 16th century, French astrologer Nostradamus predicted that there would be a zombie apocalypse in the year 2021. And now that it’s actually 2021, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention want to make sure you’re prepared ... just in case. The pandemic brought LGBTQ nightspots to the brink of closure. Now, the effort is on to save them. A new fundraising effort is hoping to stanch the bleeding for one subcategory of businesses withering due to the pandemic: LGBTQ bars and nightclubs, which have served as a "safe haven for queer people" for decades. Megan Thee Stallion is ‘Thee Hot Girl’ in new Calvin Klein campaign: ‘Now THIS is how you do it!’ This is the 26-year-old rapper's first Calvin Klein campaign. Paulina Porizkova, 55, shares raw and tearful selfie: 'Sometimes you just have a day like this' No topic is off-limits for the Czech supermodel, even her bad days. Kim Kardashian has 'empathy' for Britney Spears, says pregnancy shaming 'made me so insecure' Media obsession over the star's pregnancy body prevented her from leaving the house "for months." Katherine Heigl on raising adopted daughters and having conversations about white privilege: 'I had been so naive' The 42-year-old actress opens up about life on a ranch with her husband, three children and lots of animals. How a basic need became a multibillion-dollar industry: 'A good night’s sleep is priceless' Some people are willing to splurge on luxury products in the quest for a better night's sleep. But experts say you don't need to buy high-end goods to get quality shut-eye. New Eleanor Roosevelt Barbie thrills historians: 'Any way you can capture children's attention in 2021' To get an early read on how news of Roosevelt's Barbie version is going over, we turned to those who know her best: renowned researchers and historians of the "First Lady of the World." How Black churches may hold the key to combating COVID vaccine hesitancy in the Black community A national effort to get COVID-19 vaccinations out to the most underserved communities has prompted Black churches across the country to set up shop right in their houses of worship. Experts explain why the Black faith community may hold the key to combatting vaccine skepticism within Black communities. School Report Card: Texas schools encourage masks, Biden urges prioritizing teachers for vaccination While masks will no longer be required by the state governments of Texas or Mississippi, students in public schools are still encouraged to wear them. Influencer Natalie Noel, 24, bringing body positivity to Sports Illustrated Swim: 'Someone normal and not stick thin' The 24-year-old assistant and BFF to David Dobrik makes her debut in SI Swimsuit 2021. 'I woke up with no pain': Amazon's super-comfortable queen-size mattress is on sale for just $292 Save over $70 on the mattress that's  earned more than 2,200 perfect 5-star ratings. Cardi B debuts new doll created with minority-owned company: ‘I love the message behind it’ The 28-year-old rapper says growing up, she never saw a doll that looked like her.