 China AIDS group 'really regrets' role in gene-editing  The head of a Chinese AIDS support group expressed deep regret Friday for helping a scientist recruit participants for a controversial experiment claiming to have created the world's first genetically-edited babies. The medical trial, which was led by Chinese scientist He Jiankui, purports to have successfully altered the DNA of twin girls, whose father is HIV-positive, to prevent them from contracting the virus. The founder of the Baihualin (BHL) China League, who calls himself "Bai Hua", reportedly introduced 50 families to He's team for clinical trials. The AIDS support group operates various online chat groups, including some dedicated to married couples affected by the disease -- the perfect source for He's experiment. "I admit that I really regret this incident, and am also very worried about these families and their children," Bai wrote in statement on BHL's blog Friday. "I really want to say that I was tricked, but I don't want to push away responsibility either," Bai added. He's experiment has prompted widespread condemnation from the scientific community in China and abroad, as well as a harsh backlash from the Chinese government. On Thursday, the Chinese ministry of science and technology stressed its opposition to the gene-editing baby experiment, and demanded a halt to the "scientific activities of relevant personnel". The Chinese scientist's claims were "shocking and unacceptable" and breached "the bottom line of morality and ethics that the academic community adheres to", vice minister Xu Nanping told state broadcaster CCTV, warning that it may have broken the law. China's National Health Commission has ordered an investigation into He's experiment. - China's AIDS epidemic - The public outcry over He's experiment has drawn attention to the growing HIV/AIDS epidemic in China, which has seen a drastic surge in new cases in recent years. Last week, citing remarks at a national health commission conference, official news agency Xinhua reported that there were an estimated 1.25 million HIV-positive people in China. According to statistics from UNAIDS, an international organisation dedicated to AIDS advocacy, a total of 36.9 million people around the world were living with HIV in 2017. In the 1990s, rural parts of China -- particularly the central province of Henan -- endured the country's most debilitating AIDS epidemic. It stemmed from a tainted government-backed blood donation programme and infected tens of thousands of people, including entire villages. However, sexual transmission is now the primary way of contracting HIV in China, not blood transfusions. According to a Xinhua report in September, 93.1 percent of new reported cases in the second quarter were through sex. The same report said the number of people with HIV/AIDS in China surged 14 percent year-on-year as of the end of June, or by about 100,000 people. China also has a long history of ostracism of HIV/AIDS patients, which further complicates prevention efforts. HIV-positive individuals have faced discrimination in the Chinese job market for years, and foreigners with the virus were banned from obtaining visas until 2010. In December 2014, more than 200 people signed a petition to expel an HIV-positive eight-year-old boy from their village, prompting a national debate and highlighting the stigma involved. "I hope that everyone can view the HIV/AIDS community in a correct way, and not discriminate against those with HIV/AIDS," emphasised Bai in his statement Friday. TRENDING After Buying Her Own Condo, This 29-Year-Old’s Next Goal Is To Be A Millionaire Vaccination drive brought forward for Singapore seniors, extended to teachers, essential workers Man Utd shatter Man City's winning run, Liverpool crisis mounts Singapore #Fitspo of the Week: Xavier Ong Singapore warms to electric cars two years after Tesla’s rebuke Latest stories Ohmyhome chips away at the traditional housing transaction process Rhonda Wong and her sister, Race, who started Ohmyhome in 2016, aim to grow the business in Singapore, Malaysia and the Philippines. After Buying Her Own Condo, This 29-Year-Old’s Next Goal Is To Be A Millionaire At just 29 years old, Cassandra has bought her first Chanel handbag, her first continental car and of course, her first private property. Read her inspiring story here. Singapore warms to electric cars two years after Tesla’s rebuke After years of not doing much to foster the uptake of electric cars, Singapore has started to embrace them. MacKenzie Scott marries Seattle teacher after Bezos divorce MacKenzie Scott, philanthropist, author and former wife of Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, has married a Seattle science teacher who expressed gratitude “for the exceptional privilege it will be to partner in giving away assets with the potential to do so much good when shared."  Dan Jewett, who made the announcement in a letter to the website of the nonprofit organization the Giving Pledge on Saturday, said he never imagined he would be in a position to talk about giving away significant wealth during his lifetime in order to make a difference in other people's lives.  Jewett has been a teacher for decades and most recently taught chemistry at the private Lakeside School, where Scott's children attended. Top Japanese banker sounds alarm over Hong Kong freedoms China's crackdown in Hong Kong has left Japanese finance firms "very much afraid" and reconsidering whether to remain in the city, a senior banker said Monday in a rare public declaration of concern from within the industry. As Texas ends mask rule, restaurants stuck in tough spot Sipping coffee at a sidewalk cafe in upscale Houston Heights, Evelyne Marcks shakes her head at the Texas governor's decision to scrap a mask-wearing mandate before the Covid-19 pandemic is under control. Singapore #Fitspo of the Week: Xavier Ong The series is dedicated to inspirational men and women in Singapore leading healthy and active lifestyles. This week: actor Xavier Ong. Vaccination drive brought forward for Singapore seniors, extended to teachers, essential workers They will receive their doses earlier, while essential personnel such as postmen and news reporters will also get it. Chinese urgency on Covid-19 goes missing in jabs drive Shirley Shi has received three offers to be vaccinated against Covid-19 -- through her hometown, her Beijing residential area and her office area -- but the human resources manager is in no rush. Turkey arrests man for beating ex-wife on street A man was arrested in Turkey on Sunday after a video on social media purportedly showing him beating his ex-wife on a street sparked outrage, state media reported. Russia scores points with vaccine diplomacy, but snags arise Russia's boast in August that it was the first country to authorize a coronavirus vaccine led to skepticism at the time because of its insufficient testing.  Six months later, as demand for the Sputnik V vaccine grows, experts are raising questions again — this time, over whether Moscow can keep up with all the orders from the countries that want it.  Slovakia got 200,000 doses on March 1, even though the European Medicines Agency, the European Union's pharmaceutical regulator, only began reviewing its use on Thursday in an expedited process. Safe Sport Programme to address abuse, harassment in sport: Edwin Tong Singapore has introduced the Safe Sport Programme to address abuse and harassment in sport, a progression from the Safe Sport Commission launched in 2019. India detains scores of Rohingya ahead of expected deportation to Myanmar Scores of Rohingya who fled persecution in Myanmar are being held in a detention centre in the Indian territory of Jammu and Kashmir, an official said Sunday, after being rounded up ahead of their expected deportation to the protest-wracked nation. 13 new COVID cases in Singapore, all imported The Ministry of Health (MOH) confirmed 13 new COVID-19 cases in Singapore on Monday (8 March), taking the country's total case count to 60,046. Israeli 5-minute battery charge aims to fire up electric cars From flat battery to full charge in just five minutes -- an Israeli start-up has developed technology it says could eliminate the "range anxiety" associated with electric cars. Are REITs Poised for a Recovery in 2021 and Beyond? We do a round-up and quick summary of how we think REITs will fare for this year. The post Are REITs Poised for a Recovery in 2021 and Beyond? appeared first on The Smart Investor. Anger and fear in village split by Armenia's new frontline Stepan Movsisyan has been told his house remains in Armenia but half of his cow shed now falls under Azerbaijan's control after a war last year dramatically shifted the boundaries between the ex-Soviet foes. Boyfriend of Myanmar protest 'martyr' vows resistance Hein Yar Zar grimaced as a tattoo artist etched onto his chest the features of his first love, a young protester whose death has become a symbol of resistance against Myanmar's junta. COVID-19: Singapore detects 13 new cases, all imported MOH has confirmed the detection of 13 new cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore as of noon on Sunday (7 March). Aug 2021 Kallang/Whampoa BTO Review: 15 Minutes to Mustafa Centre Take a deep dive into the August 2021 Kallang/Whampoa BTO project, which will consist of 300 units of 3-room and 4-room flats.