  Already signed up? Log in Kenya Nation | Nation Nation ePaper Echesa bail ruling set for tomorrow The former CS has been in police custody since his arrest last week over the assault of an IEBC official. PRIME Inside plans to hand power to Gideon Moi PRIME Kenyans feel pinch of high fuel prices Meru politicians dismiss Justin Muturi’s coronation Maore terms Speaker’s coronation as "unfortunate, misguided and unnecessary". Dr Mercy Mwangangi: Before you saw us on TV, a lot went on in the background Mutahi Kagwe often joked that he was able to send texts at 2am, 3am, 4am, 5am and most times, to his surprise, we would reply immediately. PRIME Police mull murder-suicide in trio's mystery deaths PRIME Hopes of big break in Caroline Maina's murder probe Maina’s decomposing body was found by herders in a thicket in Paranai, Kajiado County on February 15. Audit report reveals counties' illegal payments to CoG Interestingly, the money was not approved by the various county assemblies. EACC seeks to recover Sh221m from ex-NLC director EACC money was lost through compensation made by NLC to two private companies for four public land. Serena Williams, Gorman lead support for Meghan Markle over royal racism Harry and Meghan interview sparks shock and memes Her explosive statements have prompted messages of support, as well as barbs against the monarchy. Covid in Kenya today Latest Echesa bail ruling set for tomorrow Harry and Meghan interview sparks shock and memes Anarchy in Isiolo Newsplex Why it's vital to close the female leadership gap Brand Book Mozzart donates equipment worth Ksh3 million to Kombewa Sub-County Hospital Sponsored by Mozzart Bet Mozzart donates equipment worth Ksh1.5 million to Molo Sub-County Hospital Sponsored by Mozzart Bet Hope as Odibets supports Kenya’s ‘fastest’ man Sponsored by Odibets Nation. Empower Africa. Choose your favourite newsletters and we will handpick stories that you would love to read. Africa Libya parliament to vote on new cabinet An interim three-member presidency council is to head the new unity administration. Sonko in court as Senegal protestors urged to take to streets What next for Tanzania maize after Kenya ban? Buhari, VP take Covid-19 vaccine as Nigeria campaign starts Ebola kills 13 in DRC, Guinea Counties Anarchy in Isiolo Ending plastic pollution in Coast Audit report reveals counties' illegal payments to CoG Cane farmers in central seek State incentives Meru politicians dismiss Justin Muturi’s coronation Ministers back Matiang’i as State House calls get louder Buxton tenants receive relocation allowances Covid-19: Thika land court closed for 14 days Kananu puts Nairobi land grabbers on notice How City Hall plans to offset ballooning debt Long wait for victims of wildlife attacks Women’s group offers market for herbs farmers Several hurt as bus is attacked on Nairobi-Isiolo highway Nakuru County drafts new Irish potato rules Covid vaccine arrives in Nakuru Refugee: I sell porridge to raise fees Opinion Kaltum Guyo: Save wildlife from avocado craze The Amboseli avocado farms are planting a seed for further acquisition of land for illegal farming Makau Mutua: Stop the Covid-19 denialism! Peter Kagwanja: Why African Union should counter vaccine imperialism, profiteering Tom Mshindi: It’s OK Kingi wants a party, but it’s not for the people Scheaffer Okore: Inclusion of women can no longer wait Nation. Empower Africa. Welcome to our new brand! We come to you in great new ways, all created to empower every single one of you. Politics Kituyi tears into Wetang’ula, Mudavadi in homecoming party ANC and Ford Kenya leaders have dismissed the new presidential hopeful as ‘late and inconsequential’. Kaya elders back Coast party calls No rift in BBI Secretariat, says Waweru PRIME Why ODM wants Kibicho out of BBI campaign Raila allies claim State bigwigs crafting succession plan Covid Health workers in Kenya hesitant about taking Covid-19 vaccine Covid-19: Kenya records 465 new cases Covid-19: Israel re-opens restaurants and bars Buhari, VP take Covid-19 vaccine as Nigeria campaign starts Business PRIME Kenyans feel pinch of high fuel prices Government comes under heavy criticism for continued heavy taxation on fuel. You are safe from British farm goods, farmers told Over 30 investors eye Maai Mahiu economic zone Agency revokes Sh524m NHIF tech system tender Trader in Sh24 Ecobank CRB listing row loses suit Life and Style Book Club: Rugano Who else takes you somewhere brand new every time you hang out? This is the reason why growing up, I enjoyed to read and why I am a writer today. Face of successful Black women in the US Caroline Wanga dusted herself from an early setback to earn a degree and promotions up the corporate ladder. PRIME Apps that could render gym trainers jobless Emerging innovation of mobile fitness apps threatening to render human gym trainers obsolete. Sports Can Borussia Dortmund keep hold of Erling Braut Haaland? There is reportedly a release clause in his contract which applies from the summer of 2022. PRIME Five talking points from the FKF-PL Team LeBron dominates 2021 NBA All-Star Game Poll: Most Japanese don't want foreign fans at Olympics Kenyan judokas win regional title in Zanzibar PRIME Beatrice Ayikoru, Uganda’s World Athletics Council Member, roots for women in sport Why Ahmad is Motsepe's only obstacle in becoming Caf president PRIME Seb Coe rallies women to take up leadership positions in sport FIA experts give lessons on safety Three talking points from the Premier League Photo Gallery Kenya launches Covid vaccination campaign Kenya has received just over one million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. Covid-19 vaccine doses arrive in Kenya Frontline workers will be the first to receive the jabs. Nyeri honours World Scouting Movement founder Baden-Powell Governor Mutahi Kahiga led celebrations under the theme 'Scouting, Promoting, Innovation, and Technology'. Nation Media Group © 2021 Nation Part of Nation Media Group Welcome! You're all set to enjoy unlimited Prime content.