 How EU arms found their way into one of Africa's bloodiest conflicts Follow the author of this article Follow the topics within this article I n July 2014, as the death toll from civil war in the world’s newest nation mounted, the European Union announced a tough new line against those it accused of failing to halt the fighting. With a ceasefire arrangement in tatters and thousands dead, the EU said it would impose sanctions on military leaders it accused of obstructing South Sudan’s peace process and overseeing atrocities. EU leaders said the measures were “part of wider EU efforts to stop violence and avoid further instability in the region” and designed to strengthen a long-standing arms embargo. Yet only four days later, at a little after 10am on July 14, a Boeing 747 taxied towards the runway at Burgas on Bulgaria’s Black Sea Coast and took to the sky. On board the cargo plane bound for Entebbe in Uganda were 4,000 assault rifles and close to three million rounds of ammunition. The consignment was one of several to make its way from EU member states across thousands of miles to fuel a conflict so deadly it may have claimed as many lives as Syria’s civil war. A forensic four-year investigation by researchers into weapons used in the war has found that, despite the EU embargo, armaments from Bulgaria, Slovakia and Romania have been channeled to government forces in South Sudan . T he investigation, carried out by Conflict Armament Research (CAR), drew on analysis of captured weapons, commercial paperwork, government correspondence and flight plans to provide the most forensic insight yet into how arms are funnelled into the war. While the British body’s 105-page report found no evidence that European suppliers or their governments knew their arms were headed for South Sudan, the research highlights the apparent weakness of international arms embargoes . It also gives a glimpse into the murky networks of arms suppliers and logistics firms whose actions recall popular television dramas such as McMafia and The Night Manager. “Our investigations are based on the most comprehensive, on-the-ground survey of the weaponry used in one of Africa’s most lethal conflicts,” said James Bevan, CAR’s executive director. “Our field teams have physically documented hundreds of weapons, and over 200,000 rounds of ammunition. The result is a forensic picture of how prohibitions on arms transfers to the warring parties have failed.” S outh Sudan was once viewed as a rare African story of hope after it emerged battered but triumphant from a decades-long rebellion fought to win the right to secede from Sudan. But the jubilation that accompanied independence in 2011 lasted only two brief years. In 2013, the movement that fought for South Sudan’s freedom violently disintegrated after Salva Kiir, the country’s once widely respected president, sacked his deputy, Riek Machar, the man who had once fought alongside him in the bush. M r Kiir’s government had been the beneficiary of US tutelage and largesse, receiving USD 11 billion in aid, but Washington was unable to stop the country it had nurtured to statehood descending into ethnically-tinged fratricide. A s the conflict itself fragmented, turning from one war into a series of them, a third of the country’s 12 million people were forced to flee their homes . A US-funded study published in September found that nearly 400,000 people had been killed in five years of fighting. The European Union, which did not take sides as overtly as the United States in South Sudan’s war for independence, has long tried to slow the flow of arms into the country. Its embargo on Sudan dates back to 1994 and was not lifted when South Sudan became independent in 2011. Yet CAR researchers found that, in reality, the restrictions meant little. Small arms and ammunition from EU states that were supposed to be exported to Uganda, South Sudan’s neighbour, instead ended up in the hands of President Kiir’s Sudan People’s Liberation Army (SPLA) and its allies. A nd it was not just small arms getting in. Researchers also found that a network of jointly owned Ugandan and US companies, controlled by British, Israeli, Ugandan and American nationals, procured a US military jet and an Austrian-made spy plane, both of which entered service with the SPLA. Although Uganda has presented itself as a key broker of peace talks to end South Sudan’s war, it has openly sided with Mr Kiir. U ganda has won praise from aid workers and the United Nations for its enlightened treatment of South Sudanese refugees. Yet it is also clear, Western diplomats say, that Uganda — as well as neighbouring Kenya — have helped to prolong the conflict from which the refugees are fleeing by allowing arms to flow to Mr Kiir’s government. The president’s forces, like the rebels they are fighting, stand accused of grave atrocities . The United Nations Security Council, at Washington’s prompting, finally followed the EU’s lead and imposed an arms embargo on South Sudan in July in part because of the findings of UN experts investigating a five-week government offensive earlier this year. O ver those five weeks, the investigators found, the SPLA and its allies killed at least 232 civilians, hanging many of them from trees and burning others alive or driving over them with armoured vehicles. Girls as young as six were allegedly gang raped in front of their families. By allowing weapons to flow to the SPLA, Uganda risks being accused of complicity in such atrocities. Documents collected by researchers show that in 2014, Bulgarian Industrial Engineering and Management (BIEM), a Bulgarian arms exporter, agreed to provide small arms and small-calibre ammunition then valued at some £2.4m to a Ugandan firm called Bosasy Logistics. T he arms were transferred in two consignments by a Russian cargo firm, ostensibly bound for the Ugandan ministry of defence. B ut field researchers have since found ammunition supplied by BIEM from 2013 onwards in both Sudan and South Sudan. Bulgaria stepped up exports to Uganda in 2015, shipping GBP 16m of arms and ammunition that year alone. The report stresses that it had no evidence any of the companies involved acted unlawfully, or knew their arms were ultimately bound for South Sudan. But the findings raise questions about the oversight of end user assurances. Researchers also found the SPLA acquired a Diamond DA42 surveillance aircraft around July 2015, and at least one L-39 jet trainer/ground attack aircraft in July 2016. The planes were allegedly procured by a network of US and Ugandan companies controlled by British, Israeli, Ugandan and US nationals. In recent weeks, South Sudan has embarked on its latest attempt at making peace. President Kiir has reconciled with Mr Machar , who earlier this month returned to South Sudan for the first time in two years to take up his old post as vice president. M any are sceptical, however. A similar deal was made in 2016 , but swiftly collapsed and many ceasefires have collapsed within hours over the course of the conflict. O nly a properly enforced embargo has a real prospect of ending the war, analysts and US officials say — which was why July’s UN resolution was hailed as such a vital breakthrough. Yet as long as neighbouring states are prepared to act as arms conduits, that breakthrough looks as remote as ever. As the embargo was being debated, some South Sudanese government officials seemed unfazed about having their supply lines cut. “We will still get whatever we want,” one was quoted as saying by The Economist . P rotect yourself and your family by learning more about Global Health Security Related Topics Follow The Telegraph Follow The Telegraph Global Health Security latest Live Coronavirus latest news: Facemasks in lessons not compulsory due to pupil anxiety, says minister Pakistan's feminists take to the streets to demand an end to violence in Women's Day march Vaccine diplomacy: how Russia and China are using their Covid-19 jabs to win friends and influence people Comment: The UK's broken promises will hurt thousands of women – as well as our reputation Comment: To change the world, we need to start by making sure girls can go to school Millions remain at risk as funding to stop violence against women fails to match need Over-56s invited for Covid vaccine jabs as July target date on track Coronavirus latest news: EU asks US for Oxford vaccine doses UK aid cuts to Yemen are a 'betrayal of British values', warn charities Exclusive: UK's first 'real-time' R number shows sharp decline Missing 'patient X' infected with Brazilian variant found in south London Narcos and necromancy: Turf wars and black magic in Colombia Covid-19 deaths hit new highs in Brazil as president tells people 'enough whining' 'Now they must respect us': a beacon of hope for Africa as Angola bans gay discrimination Covid-19 has killed at least 17,000 frontline health workers globally, figures show Coronavirus latest news: UK most likely place in the world for mutant coronavirus variant, says health minister Calls for new Covid-19 origins inquiry amid concerns China withheld data from WHO-led team India jab 80 per cent effective in preventing Covid, initial results show Comment: Optimism laced with realism is the only way to face our uncertain future Queue-jumping and clandestine jabs: Peru’s ‘vaccinegate’ sparks outrage – and a national inquiry Care for children with cancer hit by Covid-19 globally - and worse in poorer countries We've noticed you're adblocking. We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism. We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future. Thank you for your support. Need help? Visit our adblocking instructions page.