 Albury Wodonga News Canberra Star Blacktown Advocate Blue Mountains News Bowral News Central Coast Express Advocate Central Sydney Dubbo News The Express Fairfield Advance Hills Shire Times Hornsby Advocate Inner West Courier Illawarra Star Liverpool Leader Macarthur Chronicle Manly Daily Mid North Coast News Mosman Daily Newcastle News North Shore Times Northern District Times Parramatta Advertiser Penrith Press Southern Courier South Coast News St George Shire Standard Wentworth Courier Wagga Wagga Local Sport Breaking News Police and Courts Education Podcasts Read Today's Paper Classifieds Coronavirus Regional True Crime Today in History Photos Tim Blair Andrew Bolt Miranda Devine Piers Akerman Peta Credlin Louise Roberts Anna Caldwell James Morrow Breaking News Companies Economy Markets Small Business Money TV & Radio Music Awards Arts Books Movies Competitions Food Health Delicious 100 Parenting Fashion Games Real Estate Home & Garden Horoscopes Pets & Wildlife Relationships Stellar Travel SMARTdaily Motoring Motoring News Technology NRL Cricket Horse Racing AFL Rugby Football Olympics More Sports Podcasts Avalanche at Mount Cook, New Zealand claims life of NSW police officer An off-duty 40-year-old senior police constable has been killed in an avalanche on New Zealand’s Mount Cook. A New South Wales policeman has been killed in an avalanche while hiking in New Zealand. He is understood to be the second NSW police officer to die in the country’s South Island this year. The off-duty 40-year-old officer was buried after he and a companion are thought to have triggered a small avalanche while climbing down the Eugenie Glacier at Mount Cook National Park on Thursday, police say. While he has not been named publicly by New Zealand authorities, NSW Police say he was a leading senior constable with the Blue Mountains Police Area Command. “NSW Police have offered support and condolences to the officers wife and family,” a spokesperson said. The hiking pair had turned back due to poor weather when the 20-metre wave travelled 300 metres and pushed them into a crevasse. The second man, left with minor injuries, was unable to get to his friend in time, New Zealand police inspector Dave Gaskin told media. He was later winched out by helicopter after setting off a locator beacon. A third member of their party had been unwell in the morning and stayed behind in a hut. He and the injured hiker were later flown off the mountain. Inspector Gaskin described the climbers as reasonably proficient and experienced. An advisory on Thursday morning warned of a moderate avalanche risk above 1200m, due to unstable snow and poor weather in the days prior, a Mountain Safety Council spokesman said. “(It’s) an inherently dangerous place to go,” the spokesman said. An update later in the afternoon warned there was considerable risk from dangerous avalanche conditions in the area and said “cautious route-finding and conservative decision-making” were essential. Rain had aggravated the risks in an already unforgiving environment, the Department of Conservation said. “The snow at Eugenie Glacier was loose and slushy as warmer temperatures meant the snow hadn’t frozen for several nights,” said the department’s Mount Cook operations manager, Brent Swanson. Thursday’s event was the second deadly avalanche at the national park in recent weeks. Last month, on nearby Mount Hicks, New Zealand adventurer Jo Morgan managed to dig her way out of the snow that killed her two companions, Martin Hess and Wolfgang Maier. Another member of the NSW police force, 31-year-old Joshua Paroci, died in May while rafting near Queenstown. Mr Paroci was among six Australians when the raft flipped on rapids at Skippers Canyon. As they were being towed to the riverbank, Mr Paroci lost his grip and was swept through another rapid. Paramedics attempted to revive the senior constable on the shore, but they were unable to save him. Aussie man grilled over ‘orgasm’ retreat An Australian man has cancelled his “orgasm retreat” on the popular holiday island of Bali after the workshop idea caused outrage. Two bodies recovered from horror plane crash The bodies of two people killed in a plane crash near a tourism town in Western Australia’s northwest have been recovered. Membership About Us Contact Us Our News Network Our Partners Our Apps