 The Age The Age Premium More This was published 2 years ago 'Our princess': Girl, 8, dies after being hit by car in Doncaster By Larissa Ham & Anthony Colangelo Avreet Jhinger, 8, died after she was struck by a car in Doncaster. An eight-year-old who died on Thursday morning after being hit by a car has been described by her devastated family as a "princess" who loved to study and dress up. Avreet Jhinger, a pupil at Templestowe Park Primary School, was hit near a notoriously dangerous intersection in Melbourne's east on Wednesday evening. Police believe she ran out in front of the vehicle. In a statement released to Channel Nine, Avreet's family said she liked to dance and play games on her iPad. "She was our princess."  Replay     Police initially suggested Avreet and her sister were crossing Victoria Street, north of George Street, in Doncaster about 6.30pm when she was struck. But on Thursday afternoon a police spokeswoman said it was believed Avreet had stepped out in front of the vehicle. Earlier, a family friend had insisted she was not crossing the road, but walking alongside it, when she was hit. In a statement, Templestowe Park Primary School principal Mark Roberts said the school community was still coming to terms with the news, and that counselling had been offered to the family, and students and staff. " The school is doing everything we can to support the family, friends and the community." The driver of the car, a 64-year-old Doncaster East woman, stopped to help Avreet, who was taken to the Royal Children's Hospital in a life-threatening condition but later died from her injuries. Avreet's father and grandfather arrived at the scene on Thursday morning and were too upset to speak to the media. The eight-year-old girl's father  at the scene of the incident on Thursday morning. Credit: Luis Enrique Ascui Family friend Sukh Ghanas said Avreet and her nine-year-old sister were playing at a nearby park with their parents before the accident. “They were walking on the side of the road,” Mr Ghanas said. The siblings were together at the time of the accident but it is unclear where their parents were. Mr Ghanas said they were not crossing the road when she was hit by a car. Residents have described the intersection as dangerous because it is where Victoria Street dips down into a valley. Cars are seen along Victoria St, Doncaster, after the 8-year-old girl was run over. Credit: Luis Enrique Ascui John Grouios lives 100 metres from where the crash occurred. He heard “a big thud” from inside his house and walked outside to see what was wrong. “There was a girl who was distraught and another girl lying on the grass who was in a bad way,” Mr Grouios said. “To see a little girl like that, I have six children, it was hard. Resident John Grouios says drivers frequently speed down the hill. Credit: Luis Enrique Ascui “There were people helping her and I heard the sirens coming.” His son-in-law also lives nearby and also saw the aftermath of the crash when he happened to drive past. He was too distressed to talk to the media. Mr Grouios has lived in the area for years. He and his wife never let their children cross the road alone because of the speed at which cars come down the hills that lead to the dip where the girl was killed. “Even just to take them to athletics 200 metres away we would drive them.” He called on VicRoads to install speed cameras at the site. He and another nearby resident, Joe Stafrace, also want Victoria Street’s intersection with George Street changed. Doncaster resident Joe Stafrace wants the intersection changed. Credit: Luis Enrique Ascui “If you just watch the intersection you’ll notice someone will be in the left-hand lane to go straight, and another in the right-hand turning lane,” Mr Stafrace said. “But sometimes they don’t know it is a right turn only, and both cars go straight and race to get into one lane.” Both men said accidents occurred frequently here, but never recalled a fatality like this. It is a busy pedestrian intersection because there are two schools, a cricket club and athletics track nearby. Another man, who has been a resident for more than 40 years, told 3AW there was a crash or a near miss every few weeks. "It's a very, very bad intersection... something must be done," he said. Police have asked for anyone with dash cam footage of the incident, or anyone who saw the victim before the incident, to contact Crime Stoppers on 1800 333 000. Larissa Ham Larissa Ham is a reporter and digital producer. Anthony Colangelo Anthony is a sports reporter at The Age. Most Viewed in National From our partners The Age Our Sites Classifieds The Age Products & Services Copyright © 2021