 The Sydney Morning Herald The Sydney Morning Herald Premium More This was published 2 years ago Sydney's 'one-in-100-year' storm causes $10 million in damages: insurers By Sarah Keoghan Sydney is in mop-up mode after a "one-in-100-year" event poured more than 100mm of rain across the city. Insurance Council of Australia general manager of communications Campbell Fuller said insurers had already received more than 1600 claims, estimated at $10 million, due to Wednesday's storm. SES crews clear roads and assist with damaged homes. Credit: Ausgrid "These claims are mostly for roof and car damage and is not an unusual level of claims lodgement for a Sydney region seasonal storm," he said. "The Insurance Council of Australia will continue to monitor the number of claims lodged over the next few days." The SES has been working around the clock to answer all calls for help, heading out to 99 jobs since midnight. Most calls have come from the hard-hit metro areas, and 44 teams were still out about midday on Thursday. Many motorists ignored warnings from police and continued to drive through floods. Credit: Louise Kennerley "Most of the jobs at the moment are for fallen trees and roof damage - all of which are storm-related," an SES spokeswoman said. Due to the fallen trees and floods, 100 premises were still without power at midday after Ausgrid crews worked through the night to pump out water from underground power stations and to restore power lines. "Overall we handled the situation really well with our resources, especially seeing we had over 3500 [premises] without power yesterday," a spokeswoman for Ausgrid said. "I would encourage those still without power to get in touch with us for updates and to please call our emergency line if there’s a hazard that could endanger someone." Sydney Airport is also trying to get back to normal operations on Thursday after delays and cancellations wreaked havoc for travellers trying to get a flight out on Wednesday. An airport spokeswoman said that, while there were some tie-over delays from Wednesday, the airport was working on parallel runways with no cancellations as of midday. "We are still experiencing delays but it is nothing like what we saw [yesterday when] we had to work with single runway operations," she said. "The airport is now running like a normal wet and windy Thursday heading into the holiday season so would still encourage passengers to get in touch with their airlines for updates." Sarah Keoghan Sarah is a journalist for The Sydney Morning Herald. Most Viewed in Environment From our partners The Sydney Morning Herald Our Sites Classifieds The Sydney Morning Herald Products & Services Copyright © 2021