 More from ABC Editorial Policies Indonesian teacher records her boss sexually harassing her — but it's she who is jailed By Erwin Renaldi Supplied: Detik Article share options Share this on Send this by Laws governing free speech in Indonesia are under the spotlight after a teacher was sentenced to six months in prison and fined $47,000 for recording evidence of her boss sexually harassing her. Key points: Baiq Nuril, 37, was found guilty in the country's Supreme Court of circulating indecent content and defamation. Ms Nuril told the court she recorded conversations with her principal to gather evidence and protect herself from sexual harassment. "He always said inappropriate things as a principal — like detailing vulgar sexual accounts — either in phone calls or face to face conversation," she said. The court was told the recording was saved on a laptop belonging to her colleague before it was widely spread through a mobile messaging app without her consent. The principal then reported Ms Nuril to the police, alleging she had defamed him. "This is not fair to me because I feel like I'm not guilty at all," Ms Nuril told the ABC. "I was sexually harassed." Although the court decision came down in September, the aftermath has snowballed and created controversy around Indonesia's Electronic Information and Transactions (ITE) law. The law is intended to protect Indonesians from cyber crimes and bullying online, however, many experts and NGOs say a controversial revision of the law in November 2016 that made some of its clauses murkier has severely stifled freedom of speech. Supplied: Detik The South-East Asia Freedom of Expression Network has reported that more than 380 people have been charged and "victimised" under the ITE law in the two years since the revision — a sharp increase in charges when compared to the 71 cases that were seen since the law was originally introduced in 2008. Almost 50 per cent of the 380 recent cases have been related to defamation, and the significant amount of others related to blasphemy and hate speech. In 2017, Jakarta's Christian Governor, Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, also known as Ahok, was charged with "blasphemy" against a verse in the Koran via the ITE law and later jailed. 'Our freedom of speech is being threatened' A woman jailed for blasphemy An Indonesian Buddhist woman has been jailed for complaining that her neighbourhood mosque was too loud. Earlier this month an association of ITE law — made up of people who feel they have been criminalised under the law — called for the Government to eliminate "all rubber articles", a phrase to refer to the ambiguous language around some of the laws. "The articles are too open to interpretation and are never clear on the definition of defamation, and that [ambiguity] has been misused," Furqan Ermansyah, an association member, told the ABC. "I feel like our freedom of speech is being threatened." Last weekend, Indonesia's Minister of Communication and Information Technology, Rudiantara, admitted that the law had been misused, but rather than change it said that the Government would try to make sure that it did not get misused anymore. Mr Rudiantara added that the case of Ms Nuril should be taken as a lesson for other people to be more careful when using digital devices. Reuters: Darren Whiteside, file photo The Institute for Criminal Justice Reform — a Jakarta-based non-profit organisation — told the ABC that the main problem with the ITE law is that it consists of a set of regulations already covered in the Penal Code, which is derived from the legacy of Dutch colonialism. "So there are a lot of duplication legal articles [in Indonesian law] which shouldn't be there," institute executive director Anggara Suwahju said. Mr Suwahju added that having the ITE law only gives the impression that the current Government is unnecessarily suppressive. How free is the press in Indonesia? Journalists in Indonesia said press freedom was improving, but are facing new challenges with additional laws "People will look back and think that justice was moving backward under President Joko Widodo," he said. Pressure has been mounting on Mr Widodo to grant Ms Nuril amnesty from her conviction, but last week he said he could not intervene in the ruling and urged everyone to respect the legal process. However, Mr Widodo encouraged Ms Nuril to submit a case review to the Supreme Court and added that if the case review didn't provide justice, she could apply for clemency from the President. "That's where I come in," he said, according to the Jakarta Post. The ITE law association has said that if the law cannot be revised, then the Government should create more public awareness about it to prevent cases like Ms Nuril's. "Like Nuril, many others of the victims such as myself weren't fully aware about the law," Mr Ermansyah told the ABC, adding that people were being silenced by the law. "In Indonesia now, it's like there's so many beautiful birds, but none of them can sing." Article share options Share this on Send this by Related Stories Just how free is the press in South-East Asia's largest democracy? Indonesian student faces hearing over social media post Top Stories This is the story behind Christian Porter's accuser Bishop surprised neither Morrison nor Porter read anonymous letter detailing historical rape allegation 'Frank would call all of us sisters': Three young women go public with allegations against MP Craig Kelly's senior aide Meghan Markle says she was 'silenced' by the monarchy, but for years she's found ways to be heard Harry and Meghan's interview will send shockwaves through the palace. Here are the biggest revelations Meghan Markle tells Oprah there were conversations within palace 'about how dark Archie's skin might be' How Harry and Meghan went from fairy tale wedding to dropping bombshells on TV Man charged with murder after body of woman, 21, found in shallow grave in the Flinders Ranges Detectives receive an item of interest after Victorian High Country disappearances NSW Nationals claim win in koala stoush as government agrees to remove red tape for farmers 'We're all a mess': Desperate search for two-year-old girl on Queensland's Western Downs 'What the hell?': Police warn drivers over 'stupid decisions' after child found wedged behind seat of speeding ute Jarryd Hayne went to woman's house for 'one thing only' before alleged rape, court told Howard-era deputy prime minister John Anderson looks to the Senate for political comeback There are glimpses of ancient Mars on present-day Earth Popular Now This is the story behind Christian Porter's accuser Harry and Meghan's interview will send shockwaves through the palace. Here are the biggest revelations 'We're all a mess': Desperate search for two-year-old girl on Queensland's Western Downs Bishop surprised neither Morrison nor Porter read anonymous letter detailing historical rape allegation Meghan Markle says she was 'silenced' by the monarchy, but for years she's found ways to be heard How to watch Prince Harry and Meghan's Oprah interview in Australia Top Stories This is the story behind Christian Porter's accuser Bishop surprised neither Morrison nor Porter read anonymous letter detailing historical rape allegation 'Frank would call all of us sisters': Three young women go public with allegations against MP Craig Kelly's senior aide Meghan Markle says she was 'silenced' by the monarchy, but for years she's found ways to be heard Harry and Meghan's interview will send shockwaves through the palace. Here are the biggest revelations Meghan Markle tells Oprah there were conversations within palace 'about how dark Archie's skin might be' How Harry and Meghan went from fairy tale wedding to dropping bombshells on TV Man charged with murder after body of woman, 21, found in shallow grave in the Flinders Ranges Detectives receive an item of interest after Victorian High Country disappearances Just In 'We're all a mess': Desperate search for two-year-old girl on Queensland's Western Downs NSW government fails to reach position on school suspensions Bishop surprised neither Morrison nor Porter read anonymous letter detailing historical rape allegation This is the story behind Christian Porter's accuser Howard-era deputy prime minister John Anderson looks to the Senate for political comeback Liberals to replace how-to-vote cards after One Nation racism row Footer We acknowledge Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples as the First Australians and Traditional Custodians of the lands where we live, learn, and work. Sections News in language Connect with ABC News More from ABC News This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP), APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright and cannot be reproduced. AEST = Australian Eastern Standard Time which is 10 hours ahead of GMT (Greenwich Mean Time)