 Ebola outbreak in DR Congo now second worst in history The UN's global health body says the Ebola outbreak in the east of the Democratic Republic of Congo is now the second-biggest ever recorded. A total of 426 cases of the virus have now been reported in and around the town of Beni, taking the outbreak past that recorded in Uganda in 2000. Beni is in the middle of a conflict zone and operations have been affected by rebel attacks. Almost 200 people have died in this outbreak of Ebola. But it is still much smaller than the epidemic in West Africa between 2013 and 2016 which killed 11,310 people. This is the second Ebola outbreak in DR Congo this year. The previous outbreak, in the west of the country, killed 33 people, according to the government. "[We] will continue to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the Congolese health ministry to do whatever it takes to bring the outbreak to an end," the World Health Organization's Deputy Director-General for Emergency Preparedness and Response has said in a tweet. The #Ebola outbreak in #DRC is now second largest historically. A sad toll, with too many families losing loved ones. @WHO and partners will continue to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with @MinSanteRDC to do whatever it takes to bring the outbreak to an end. The current outbreak in eastern DR Congo began in July and is the 10th to hit the country since 1976. Health workers hope that the first multi-drug Ebola treatment trial, announced by DR Congo's health ministry on Monday, will help to contain this and future outbreaks. Explaining the World Health Organization-backed initiative, WHO Director-General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said a "randomised control trial" in DR Congo was a "giant step" that would "bring clarity about what works best, and save many lives in years to come". Insecurity in the east of the country has affected the Ebola response. A deadly rebel attack in September forced health workers to halt vaccinations and the tracing of people who have been in contact with suspected Ebola patients. The previous month, the WHO's Peter Salama warned of such a "dreaded" scenario coming to pass. Related Topics More on this story How to stop Ebola spreading Why Ebola keeps coming back Life after Ebola DR Congo profile Top Stories Meghan: Royal had concerns about son's skin colour The duchess tells Oprah Winfrey that a family member talked about how "dark" her baby's skin might be. Meghan 'didn't want to be alive any more' Huge explosion hurts hundreds in Equatorial Guinea Features The woman with HIV helping others have a 'good death' What's causing vaccine delays in some Asian countries? Covid: 'My family told me to marry at 14' George Floyd trial to start with hunt for jurors 'The first black fairytale' gets modern reworking 'Deepfake is the future of content creation' The ballerina dancing on ice for a real ‘swan lake’ Video The ballerina dancing on ice for a real ‘swan lake’ The surprising behaviour that stunned scientists Could lab-grown meat help tackle climate change? Video Could lab-grown meat help tackle climate change? Elsewhere on the BBC Lyrics quiz Have you been getting these songs wrong? Feeling hot What happens to your body in extreme heat? Most Read 12 things we learned from Meghan's Oprah interview 1 Billionaire Mackenzie Scott marries science teacher 2 Meghan 'didn't want to be alive any more' 3 Switzerland votes to ban face coverings in public 4 French MP and billionaire Dassault dies in crash 5 Huge explosion hurts hundreds in Equatorial Guinea 6 Banksy to auction hospital art for NHS 7 Covid: 'My family told me to marry at 14' 8 China says manufacturing 'greatness' still years away 9 'Deepfake is the future of content creation' 10 BBC News Services © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.