 Derek Whyteside 'murdered' by boy with cricket bat A stepfather looking for two stolen bikes was murdered by a 16-year-old armed with a cricket bat, a jury has heard. The teenager "crept up behind" Derek Whyteside in Telford, Shropshire, attacking him with a full swing of the bat, Stafford Crown Court was told. Mr Whyteside, 42, suffered a skull fracture and died two days later. The accused denies murder. Two men, aged 41 and 39, previously admitted a charge of affray. Prosecutor Kevin Hegarty QC told jurors Mr Whyteside was attacked in Withywood Drive, Malinslee, on 18 June. 'No chance to defend' "He was looking for two stolen bicycles and also he was looking for those responsible for stealing them," Mr Hegarty said. "Whilst he was there, he was struck across the back of the head with a bat. The impact fractured his skull and the fracture extended into his right eye socket. "Before he could take another step, he then collapsed on the ground." The teenager, who cannot be named due to his age, "gave Derek Whyteside no chance to take any action to defend himself, to get away or to evade the blow", Mr Hegarty said. Mr Whyteside's head struck the ground as he landed, Mr Hegarty alleged, causing him another fracture. He was then attacked by two men, the court was told. The teenager was arrested and told police he had acted in self-defence, the court heard. Jurors were told that Mr Whyteside, of Chesterfield Road, Dawley, was seen carrying a knuckle-duster as he looked for the children's bicycles, which had been taken from outside his home earlier the same day. William Owens, 41, and Gareth Edward Owens, 39, both of Boulton Grange in Randlay, have each admitted a charge of affray. The trial continues. Related Topics Related Internet Links HM Courts & Tribunals Service From other local news sites Former Blue Peter presenter and Shropshire student launches campaign to tackle loneliness Oswestry Balloon Carnival set to return this August Mighty Oakley, nine, is hero for quick thinking after mum's collapse Helping cut energy bills for households in south Shropshire A483 road closed at Llynclys Pubs given permission to serve from beer gardens from April 12: Here are some you might want to visit Information about BBC links to other news sites Top Stories Meghan: Royal had concerns about son's skin colour The duchess tells Oprah Winfrey that a family member talked about how "dark" her baby's skin might be. 'Royalty is not a shield from the despair of racism' Huge explosion hurts hundreds in Equatorial Guinea Features The woman with HIV helping others have a 'good death' What's causing vaccine delays in some Asian countries? Covid: 'My family told me to marry at 14' George Floyd trial to start with hunt for jurors 'The first black fairytale' gets modern reworking 'Deepfake is the future of content creation' The ballerina dancing on ice for a real ‘swan lake’ Video The ballerina dancing on ice for a real ‘swan lake’ The surprising behaviour that stunned scientists Could lab-grown meat help tackle climate change? Video Could lab-grown meat help tackle climate change? Elsewhere on the BBC Lyrics quiz Have you been getting these songs wrong? Feeling hot What happens to your body in extreme heat? Most Read 12 things we learned from Meghan's Oprah interview 1 Billionaire Mackenzie Scott marries science teacher 2 Meghan 'didn't want to be alive any more' 3 Switzerland votes to ban face coverings in public 4 French MP and billionaire Dassault dies in crash 5 Banksy to auction hospital art for NHS 6 Huge explosion hurts hundreds in Equatorial Guinea 7 Covid: 'My family told me to marry at 14' 8 China says manufacturing 'greatness' still years away 9 'Deepfake is the future of content creation' 10 BBC News Services © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.