 Leicester helicopter crash: 'Minimal chance' of survival for five on board There was "minimal chance" for anyone to survive a helicopter crash outside Leicester City's stadium in which five people died, an inquest has heard. Club owner Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha died alongside four others when the aircraft came down shortly after a match on 27 October. Det Ch Supt David Sandall told the inquest an intense fire stopped anyone getting in or out of the cabin. He said CCTV footage showed the helicopter "spinning out of control". Coroner Catherine Mason heard Mr Sandall, of Leicestershire Police, was the senior identification manager. Mr Sandall confirmed the victims had been scientifically identified and added: "CCTV shows the five victims in the tunnel at Leicester City football ground. "Mobile phone footage showed the helicopter spinning out of control before descending to the crash site." Adjourning the inquest, Ms Mason said: "You have detailed to me that the final cause of death is pending subject to tests. "Therefore I am not in a position to continue with the inquest at this time." A date for the inquest's resumption has not been set. Many players and staff have returned to the UK after attending the start of Mr Vichai's funeral in Thailand. The billionaire bought Leicester City in 2010, and his guidance and investment is credited with helping the club win promotion in 2014 and then the Premier League title in 2016. A number of players, including club captain Wes Morgan, striker Jamie Vardy and goalkeeper Kasper Schmeichel, have spoken of the huge impact the Thai billionaire had on them and the club. Thousands of tributes have been left outside the King Power Stadium and both physical and online books of condolence have opened. Mr Vichai routinely flew from the stadium after matches and the helicopter came down less than a minute after taking off following a 1-1 draw with West Ham. Two members of Mr Vichai's staff - Kaveporn Punpare and Nusara Suknamai - pilot Eric Swaffer and his partner Izabela Roza Lechowicz, also a qualified pilot, were also killed in the crash. The Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) is conducting an investigation into the cause of the crash having taken the wreckage to a facility in Farnborough, Hampshire. The AAIB has confirmed contents of the digital flight recorder survived the post-crash fire. Follow BBC East Midlands on Facebook , on Twitter , or on Instagram . Send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk . Related Topics More on this story Leicester players attend Thailand funeral Leicester players fly to Thai funeral Leicester helicopter wreckage removed Leicester helicopter crash victims named Related Internet Links Leicester City Football Club Air Accidents Investigation Branch The Coroner's Service From other local news sites Pressure still on Leicestershire hospitals a year into Covid pandemic Melton gets in a flap over stunning murmurations Telephone scammers continue to target residents in Leicestershire - here's how t... Virtual Reading Friends groups set up in Leicestershire for parents and carers t... Information about BBC links to other news sites Top Stories Meghan: Royal had concerns about son's skin colour The duchess tells Oprah Winfrey that a family member talked about how "dark" her baby's skin might be. Meghan 'didn't want to be alive any more' Huge explosion hurts hundreds in Equatorial Guinea Features The woman with HIV helping others have a 'good death' What's causing vaccine delays in some Asian countries? Covid: 'My family told me to marry at 14' George Floyd trial to start with hunt for jurors 'The first black fairytale' gets modern reworking 'Deepfake is the future of content creation' The ballerina dancing on ice for a real ‘swan lake’ Video The ballerina dancing on ice for a real ‘swan lake’ The surprising behaviour that stunned scientists Could lab-grown meat help tackle climate change? Video Could lab-grown meat help tackle climate change? Elsewhere on the BBC Lyrics quiz Have you been getting these songs wrong? Feeling hot What happens to your body in extreme heat? Most Read 12 things we learned from Meghan's Oprah interview 1 Billionaire Mackenzie Scott marries science teacher 2 Meghan 'didn't want to be alive any more' 3 Switzerland votes to ban face coverings in public 4 French MP and billionaire Dassault dies in crash 5 Huge explosion hurts hundreds in Equatorial Guinea 6 Covid: 'My family told me to marry at 14' 7 Banksy to auction hospital art for NHS 8 China says manufacturing 'greatness' still years away 9 'Deepfake is the future of content creation' 10 BBC News Services © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.