 Ilford crossbow death: Man charged with pregnant woman's murder A man has been charged with the murder of a pregnant woman who was shot through the stomach with a crossbow. Sana Muhammad, 35, was eight months pregnant but her baby survived after an emergency Caesarean section, the Evening Standard reported . The Met Police said the baby was in a "stable condition" in hospital after the attack in Ilford, east London, on Monday. Ramanodge Unmathallegadoo, 50, is to appear at the Old Bailey on Thursday. Mrs Muhammad was killed in front of her five other children in the family home, her husband Imtiaz Muhammad said. Police were called to the house on Applegarth Drive at 07:40 GMT on Monday where she was found with a wound to her abdomen. She was taken to hospital, and pronounced dead at 11:00. In tribute to his wife, Mr Muhammad told the Evening Standard: "She was a wonderful mother and wife. We were together seven years. I am heartbroken we were inseparable." Labour MP for Ilford North Wes Streeting tweeted his reaction to the death, describing it as "deeply disturbing and distressing". Mr Unmathallegadoo was initially arrested at the scene on suspicion of attempted murder and taken to a police station in east London. He was further arrested on suspicion of murder before being charged on Tuesday morning, the Met said. Det Ch Insp Gary Holmes added: "This is a tragic incident and our sympathies are with the loved ones and friends of the victim." Neighbour Nisa Khan, 40, described Mrs Muhammad as "more than a friend, like a sister". She added: "I knew her for a good seven years, ever since they moved there we've known them. "She was just a lovely lady, lovely mother, lovely wife. I never saw her being upset, she always had a smile on her face even in the hard times." 'Everyone's in shock' Another neighbour, Ambreen Zaidi, said Mrs Muhammad was excited about having another baby. She said: "I think about her a lot and her children and we can't accept right now what has happened. "Yesterday morning there was lots of police, we did not know what happened, but everyone here is in shock." At the scene BBC News correspondent Richard Lister Two police cars remain parked on the kerb outside the home where Sana Muhammad was injured on Monday. A bouquet of flowers has been left propped up against a bin and a police officer is standing at the entrance to the family home. It's a very quiet street tucked away in east London - residents here having been telling me about their "terrible shock" as to what has happened. One man told me he used to see the victim walking with her kids and that he "couldn't believe the news". Related Topics Related Internet Links HM Courts & Tribunals Service From other local news sites Weather warning: strong winds coming to Hertfordshire Green man traffic signal replaced by woman John Kerry meets Boris Johnson in latest sign of US shift over climate change Ahmad Torfi: Erorh sentenced over New Cross stabbing Search heightens for missing Brixton woman Sarah Everard Sarah's Everard's family make plea as Specialist Crime cops take over search Information about BBC links to other news sites Top Stories Meghan: Royal had concerns about son's skin colour The duchess tells Oprah Winfrey that a family member talked about how "dark" her baby's skin might be. Meghan 'didn't want to be alive any more' Huge explosion hurts hundreds in Equatorial Guinea Features The woman with HIV helping others have a 'good death' What's causing vaccine delays in some Asian countries? Covid: 'My family told me to marry at 14' George Floyd trial to start with hunt for jurors 'The first black fairytale' gets modern reworking 'Deepfake is the future of content creation' The ballerina dancing on ice for a real ‘swan lake’ Video The ballerina dancing on ice for a real ‘swan lake’ The surprising behaviour that stunned scientists Could lab-grown meat help tackle climate change? Video Could lab-grown meat help tackle climate change? Elsewhere on the BBC Lyrics quiz Have you been getting these songs wrong? Feeling hot What happens to your body in extreme heat? Most Read 12 things we learned from Meghan's Oprah interview 1 Billionaire Mackenzie Scott marries science teacher 2 Meghan 'didn't want to be alive any more' 3 Switzerland votes to ban face coverings in public 4 French MP and billionaire Dassault dies in crash 5 Huge explosion hurts hundreds in Equatorial Guinea 6 Covid: 'My family told me to marry at 14' 7 Banksy to auction hospital art for NHS 8 China says manufacturing 'greatness' still years away 9 'Deepfake is the future of content creation' 10 BBC News Services © 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.