 The Sydney Morning Herald The Sydney Morning Herald Premium More This was published 2 years ago 'Damaging spikes': International Energy Agency sends an oil price warning By Cole Latimer The International Energy Agency has forecast a coming global oil price crunch in the early 2020s as growing demand outstrips supply. In the IEA’s latest annual World Energy Outlook it has forecast that oil and gas will be the world’s major source of energy but a lack of new oil projects will put a strain on global supplies. Crude oil has risen to more than $US85 a barrel and could top $US100 in the next year or two. Credit: Bloomberg “Investment in new conventional upstream oil projects is currently well below what would be required to meet demand,” the IEA said. Oil demand is forecast to grow by around one million barrels per day every year to 2025, after which this growth slows down. However, global demand is not expected to peak until around 2040 after which there will be year on year declines in oil demand. “This divergence in trends between strong consumption growth and weak investment in new supply, if left unchecked, points to damaging price spikes in the 2020s.” However, this is in contrast to Standard and Poors’ forecasts of a falling oil price, which drops from around $US65 a barrel in 2019 down to $US55 a barrel for 2021 and beyond. Oil reached a four-year peak of $US86 last month and have been declining since. The IEA report also highlighted the increasing electrification of the world and wind and solar playing a major role in this as the world shifts from coal-fired generation. “The electricity sector is experiencing its most dramatic transformation since its creation more than a century ago,” IEA executive director Dr Fatih Birol said. Coal’s role as a power source is expected to flatten, with the 2018 World Outlook forecasting coal demand to fall by around three per cent compared to its last outlook. It will be mostly replaced by a combination of new wind and solar projects. Gas remains stable while nuclear power sees a slight fall. While new coal-fired power stations have been touted in Australia as a way to increase the reliability of the east coast's grid, the IEA expects very few new power stations will be built globally. “Once the current wave of coal plant projects under construction is over, the flow of new coal projects starting operation slows sharply post-2020,” the IEA said. UBS analysts say high-quality thermal coal still has decades of life ahead. "Coal is not dead, particularly from a coal-fired power generation perspective," UBS analyst Glynn Lawcock said at the UBS Australasia Conference on Tuesday. UBS analyst Lachlan Shaw added that this will help boost coal mining in Australia. "When we look at the build in coal-fired power generation capacity today and what's being built in the last five to ten years and you project that out, the fact is there is a long period ahead of coal mining," Mr Shaw said. Thermal coal mining itself is forecast not to see a serious decline as falling demand for coal from China and Europe is offset by a massive growth in demand from India and South East Asia. Australia will remain the world’s largest coal exporter and is expected to increase its coal production as it takes advantage of growing coal demand for power from India and South East Asia. The IEA forecasts that very few new coal-fired power station will be built around the world compared to the rise in new wind and solar farms. Credit: Photo: Bloomberg The report also highlighted Australia’s capacity to become a world leader in hydrogen technology, using a combination of wind and solar power to develop it. Federal Energy Minister Angus Taylor said Australia is well positioned to take advantage of global energy demand growth. "The report points to a range of opportunities for Australia, with continuing global demand for key energy exports like coal and gas," Mr Taylor told Fairfax Media. Despite a shift towards lower emissions technology, Dr Birol also noted a worrying rise in global enegy-related carbon dioxide emissions, which rose for the first time in three years in 2017 and are expected to continue this trajectory. The IEA said carbon capture and storage needs to play a large part in meeting climate goals but that there are few projects of this type underway globally. “The world is still a long way away from meeting its environmental objectives, both in terms of climate and air quality,” Dr Birol said. “The projected emissions trend represents a major collective failure to tackle the environmental consequences of energy use. The World Energy Outlook underlines once again that policies matter.” Cole Latimer Covering energy and policy at Fairfax Media. Most Viewed in Business From our partners The Sydney Morning Herald Our Sites Classifieds The Sydney Morning Herald Products & Services Copyright © 2021