 Up to eight feared dead as Marseille building collapses suddenly Follow the author of this article Follow the topics within this article A s many as eight people might have died in the southern French city of Marseille in two building collapses, officials said Tuesday after the first body was pulled out from the wreckage. Rescuers worked throughout the night to look for victims in the rubble of two dilapidated apartment blocks which collapsed suddenly on Monday morning not far from the centre of the Mediterranean port city. T here are between five to eight people missing, Interior Minister Christophe Castaner said late Monday, with authorities trying to trace five residents and three other people who had been invited to the buildings. "The most important is saving lives," Castaner added from the scene. "During the first clearing operations we've found some pockets of air that means we still have some hope of finding and identifying a survivor." T he first victim - a man - was pulled from the wreckage Tuesday, prosecutor Xavier Tarabeux said, adding that he needed to be identified. Google Maps images taken in recent months showed the two collapsed buildings, in the working-class neighbourhood of Noailles, had had large visible cracks in their facades. O ne of them had been condemned and, with its windows boarded up, was well-secured and in theory unoccupied, officials said. Related Topics Follow The Telegraph Follow The Telegraph News latest Comment: SNP's poll ratings have tanked - and about time too Live Coronavirus latest news: Facemasks in lessons not compulsory due to pupil anxiety, says minister Live Travel news latest: 'Exit permit' for travellers comes into force today Live Harry and Meghan's Oprah interview: Pressure on Buckingham Palace to investigate racism allegations Live Politics latest news: David Frost 'playing games around Brexit', claims former mandarin Myanmar's military occupy hospitals as trade unions call for a general strike Comment: Harry and Meghan have well and truly trashed the Royal Family's reputation in America Holi Festival 2021: how the thwarting of a Hindu demon king led to the colourful celebration How the Spring Equinox marks the changing seasons St Patrick's Day 2021: shamrocks, snakes and how a British slave became Ireland's patron saint Watch: 'The interview can't be undone': Why there's no way back for Meghan, Harry and the Royal family Oprah with Meghan and Harry interview review: Sussexes deliver enough bombshells to sink a flotilla Forget hiding behind the sofa, the Royal family needed a bullet-proof vest as Harry and Meghan let rip Harry and Meghan's Oprah interview bombshells: They accuse Royal family of racism, reveal Duchess had suicidal thoughts and say Kate made Meghan cry Key quotes: Meghan and Harry on mental health, family relations and Archie's skin tone 'Kate made me cry': Duchess of Sussex claims it was the Duchess of Cambridge who upset her in row over bridesmaids dresses Harry and Meghan got married in secret three days before their fairytale public wedding Duchess of Sussex reveals she contemplated suicide when pregnant due to 'stress' and 'isolation' 'It's a girl': Harry and Meghan reveal gender of second child in Oprah Winfrey interview Harry and Meghan announce they are expecting a baby girl - latest news on due date and royal name odds Princess Diana foresaw Prince Harry's departure from Royal family, Duke claims We've noticed you're adblocking. We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism. We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future. Thank you for your support. Need help? Visit our adblocking instructions page.