 Menu Close Topics TV Programs Connect Close Local your local region Share Calendar Calendar Search Quick Search Trending Now Comments Close comments menu Comments closed. Due to the sensitive and/or legal subject matter of some of the content on globalnews.ca, we reserve the ability to disable comments from time to time. Please see our Commenting Policy for more. 19-year-old Jagvir Malhi identified as victim in Abbotsford shooting The probe into the fatal daytime shooting of a 19-year-old in Abbotsford is now in the hands of the Integrated Homicide Investigation Team (IHIT). Abbotsford police were called to the intersection of Simpson and Ross roads around 3:30 p.m. and found people performing CPR on a victim with multiple gunshot wounds in the middle of the street. READ MORE: Surrey RCMP investigating after reports of shots fired An air ambulance rushed the victim to hospital, where he died shortly after. Sources identified the victim as Jagvir Malhi, a  University of the Fraser Valley student who was studying criminology in the hopes of becoming a corrections officer. They said he had no ties to gangs and described him as a good kid who often helped others. WATCH: Fatal shooting in Abbotsford Police only confirmed the victim was a 19-year-old Abbotsford resident who was gunned down within a block of Ross Elementary School. Witness Richard Tarenta told Global News that because of the Remembrance Day holiday, the area around the school wasn’t as busy as it normally would have been at that time of day. “Because there were no kids around, thank God, it was really quiet,” he said. On Tuesday, the school said classes would be in session and a police liaison officer would be on scene to answer any questions about the investigation. We’re live on @GlobalBC from Ross and Simpson Roads in Abbotsford this morning after a daylight shooting claiming the life of a 19-year-old local resident. @HomicideTeam has taken over the investigation and is asking anyone with information to contact them or Crime Stoppers. pic.twitter.com/eIACZhF4U7 — Neetu Garcha (@NeetuGarcha) November 13, 2018  — With files from John Copsey Sponsored content More from Global News Get a roundup of the most important and intriguing national stories delivered to your inbox every weekday. Trending Top Videos Get a roundup of the most important and intriguing national stories delivered to your inbox every weekday. Flyers Report an Error