  Express. Home of the Daily and Sunday Express. Pancreatic cancer: The disease is the deadliest common cancer - what are the symptoms? PANCREATIC cancer is the deadliest common cancer in the UK. In order to catch the disease early and make treatment easier, it’s imperative to know what symptoms to look out for. Pancreatic cancer signs and symptoms to look out for When you subscribe we will use the information you provide to send you these newsletters.
Sometimes they'll include recommendations for other related newsletters or services we offer.
Our Privacy Notice explains more about how we use your data, and your rights.
You can unsubscribe at any time. According to Pancreatic Cancer UK, three-quarters of people with pancreatic cancer will die within a year of diagnosis. This makes it the deadliest common cancer in the UK. Cancer of the pancreas is difficult to treat, and is often not detected until the cancer is fairly advanced. If the tumour is large or has spread to other parts of the body, treatment will be more difficult. Related articles Pancreatic cancer can be difficult to diagnose because the symptoms can seem quite generic or can be mistaken for other diseases or conditions Pancreatic Cancer UK It’s therefore vital to know what symptoms to look out for, so you can get the necessary treatment as soon as possible. However, symptoms are often not evident in the early stages of the disease, and can be mistaken for other problems . “Pancreatic cancer can be difficult to diagnose because the symptoms can seem quite generic or can be mistaken for other diseases or conditions,” said Jeni Jones, specialist nurse at Pancreatic Cancer UK. So what are the symptoms of pancreatic cancer? Common symptoms of the disease, according to Pancreatic Cancer UK, include tummy and back pain, unexplained weight loss and indigestion. Other symptoms include loss of appetite, changes to bowel habits, jaundice, problems digesting food, nausea and vomiting, and difficulty swallowing.  Changes to bowel habits can include pale, smelly poo that may float, diarrhoea and constipation. Problems digesting food can include feeling full quickly when eating, bloating, burping or lots of wind. Recently diagnosed diabetes could also be a sign of an underlying pancreatic problem. Symptoms may be quite vague and may come and go to begin with. If you experience any of these symptoms, they could be a sign of something else like IBS, but it’s advisable to get them checked out just in case. “These symptoms don’t necessarily mean that you have pancreatic cancer, but you should get them checked out,” said Jones. Related articles   Signs and symptoms of pancreatic cancer Pancreatic cancer symptoms to look out for. Pancreatic cancer signs and symptoms “If you develop jaundice (yellow skin and eyes, itchy skin, pale poo and dark urine) go to your GP or A&E straight away.” “If you have any of the other symptoms and they last four weeks or more, speak to your doctor.” “The earlier people are diagnosed, the earlier they can be treated which may increase their chances of being eligible for potentially life-saving surgery.” Pancreatic Cancer UK has launched a campaign for Pancreatic Cancer Awareness Month in November, to get everyone diagnosed with the disease treatment within 20 days before the cancer spreads. “Pancreatic cancer treatment can’t wait,” said the charity. Related articles Most read in Health Latest videos Income tax UK: You may pay 'higher taxes' despite Rishi Sunak's freezes - full details Children Covid tests: Difference between lateral flow & PCR test - Isolation rules change WRC legend Walter Röhrl takes classic Porsche 953 Carrera Paris Dakar for ice trip Avengers Endgame star Chris Evans on why Falcon was the obvious choice to take his shield Georginio Wijnaldum calls for 'patience' from Liverpool fans on contract negotiations Covid vaccine side effects: Do not get second shot if you have an allergic reaction - CDC Diabetes type 2 symptoms: 'Difficulty rising' is a warning sign - do you experience this? Children Covid tests: Difference between lateral flow & PCR test - Isolation rules change Statins side effects: Statins may cause weight gain indirectly, research suggests Oprah 'ended up in the emergency room’ after a serious health scare - the symptoms Brazil variant: Where did test and trace discover 'mystery' Brazil variant traveller? Pfizer Covid vaccine side effects: More than one in 10 people suffer joint pain Vitamin B12 deficiency: Three serious warning signs you have 'prolonged' B12 deficiency Dementia symptoms: The three main signs of the cognitive decline disease Covid vaccine side effects: After effects 'more common' after second shot of vaccine Diabetes type 2 symptoms: Have you experienced 'foot drop’? Warning sign Olive oil benefits: How to use olive oil on your face for skin moisture and to avoid spots Arthritis symptoms: 15 'unusual' signs of arthritis you may be missing How to get rid of bed bugs: The three steps to avoid bed bug infestation How to live longer: Coconut oil may boost heart health and help keep your weight in check Lemon juice benefits: Five 'incredible' ways lemon juice can improve your health See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,
order back issues and use the historic Daily Express
newspaper archive. News Latest News Showbiz & TV Sport Pictures Comment Finance Travel Entertainment Life & Style EXPRESS.CO.UK