Former Umno minister charged with molest of 15-year-old girl

Former Umno minister Shahidan Kassim is accused of molesting a 15-year-old girl on Oct 20.

KUALA LUMPUR — A former United Malays National Organisation (Umno) minister was charged on Monday (Nov 12) with molesting an underaged girl, after denying for weeks that he behaved inappropriately.

Shahidan Kassim was charged at a Sessions Court in the northern Malaysian state of Perlis under Section 14(a) of the Sexual Offences Against Children Act 2017 for physical sexual assault on a child by touching any part of the child’s body.

The incident was alleged to have occurred at the open space of Tuanku Syed Putra Stadium in the state capital of Kangar at about 11.30pm on Oct 20.

Bail was set at RM25,000 (S$8,234.81) in two sureties. He was allowed to keep his passport. The case is up for remention on January 8 next year.

"I pray that justice and truth can be upheld," The Star Online quoted Shahidan as saying in court.

The Umno Member of Parliament had earlier arrived in court wearing a dark blazer and sunglasses, as well as using a walking stick.

He was accompanied by his wife and some 50 supporters who had been waiting in court for his arrival since early morning.

Shahidan has been in the news for allegedly molesting a girl who was just over 15 years last month.

The victim from Arau, Perlis, had written in her police report that she was told by her teacher that the former minister had wanted to see her after he saw her perform with a band at the stadium.

The girl is from a buskers group that Shahidan sponsors.
 
The unnamed girl claimed that the talk with Shahidan took place in his car and that he had offered to pay her RM4,000 to play a gig in Kuala Lumpur, while holding her hand and caressing her shoulder.

She claimed that she fled after being touched in that manner.

News of the incident went viral but Shahidan denied that he had behaved inappropriately with the girl.

Instead, he said he had asked to meet the girl and her entire family in his car after watching the street performance as he wanted to give them some money.

He also added the police report lodged against him on this had been withdrawn.

Additionally, the father of the girl had claimed that the matter had been amicably resolved and the family deemed that there was no need to blow it out of proportion. AGENCIES
Read more at https://www.todayonline.com/world/former-umno-minister-charged-molest-15-year-old-girl