 Sections Featured: Nine US military flights have stayed overnight at Shannon Airport this year Call for Irish to ask Biden for vaccine help as supply is delayed Popular: Coronavirus live updates: Nine deaths reported today between NI and RoI Irish family in England wins battle to include Irish language phrase on mother's headstone Biden backs Irish after British move to change Good Friday Agreement Sections Featured: International Women's Day - the inspiring lives of some of Ireland's fiercest females St. Patrick's real name was actually Maewyn Succat Popular: A traditional Irish cold weather treat Dublin coddle recipe Why we’re proud to be Irish this St. Patrick’s Day Fun facts about Ireland and the Irish ahead of St. Patrick's Day Sections Featured: Liam Neeson to play hired killer with early Alzheimer's in next movie Inspiring quotes from Irish heroes for International Women's Day Popular: A traditional Irish cold weather treat Dublin coddle recipe Why we’re proud to be Irish this St. Patrick’s Day St. Patrick's Day trees are the latest trend in holiday decorations Sections Featured: Irish beach voted among best in Europe, again! Visit America's only Guinness Brewery for St Patrick's Day Popular: Fun facts about Ireland and the Irish ahead of St. Patrick's Day Surprising places around the world that celebrate St. Patrick's Day The truth about Ireland's fairies and leprechauns Sections Featured: Step out in style this St.Patrick’s Day with CelticClothing.com Meet the Irish Producer: McNutt of Donegal Popular: Liwu Jewellery captures the symbolism of Ireland in silver and gold The IrishCentral St. Patrick's Day shopping gift guide Scientists in Ireland find link between obesity and cancer Trinity College Dublin research has discovered that the body’s immune surveillance systems stutter and fail in the presence of excess fat, which reduces their ability to fight cancer and disease. Trinity College Dublin research has discovered that the body’s immune surveillance systems stutter and fail in the presence of excess fat, which reduces their ability to fight cancer and disease. Scientists, at Trinity College Dublin, have made a major discovery that shines a new, explanatory light on the link between obesity and cancer. Their research confirms why the body’s immune surveillance systems – led by cancer-fighting Natural Killer cells – stutter and fail in the presence of excess fat. Additionally, it outlines possible paths to new treatment strategies that would see “fat-clogged” Natural Killer cells molecularly re-programmed and jolted back into action. 2 Trinity College Dublin. Trinity College Dublin. Over 1.9 billion adults are overweight and obese (over one-third of the adult population) and this places a huge health and economic burden on society because there are a large number of knock-on adverse health impacts to being obese, such as type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and a range of infections. Additionally, up to 50% of certain cancers are attributed to obesity. Until now, however, little had been known about the impact obesity has on immune surveillance. Read more: Irish professor provides dementia prevention tips The research that changed that was led by Associate Professor in Immunology at Trinity College Dublin, Lydia Lynch, who also conducts research at Harvard Medical School, and Brigham and Women’s Hospital in the US. The research has just been published in leading international journal Nature Immunology. Working with natural killer cells from humans, and mice as model organisms – the scientists first discovered that the molecular machinery of Natural Killer cells gets clogged up by excess fat in obese individuals. This clogging up does not prevent Natural Killer cells from recognizing tumor cells, but it does prevent them from killing them. Further investigation then pinpointed the specific metabolic step that was stifled in the fat-clogged Natural Killer cells, and, offering promise for the development of treatments further down the line, the scientists were able to re-programme these cells and restore their cancer-fighting abilities by providing them with a metabolic jolt. Professor Lynch said: “Despite increased public awareness, the prevalence of obesity and related diseases continue. Therefore, there is increased urgency to understand the pathways whereby obesity causes cancer and leads to other diseases, and to develop new strategies to prevent their progression.” “Our results highlight immuno-metabolic pathways as a promising target to reverse immune defects in obesity and suggest that metabolic reprogramming of Natural Killer cells may kick-start their anti-cancer activity and improve treatment outcomes.” Read more: Irishman given six months to live gains Harvard masters degree  Related: Dublin , Health , Science Read this next The global Irish pride felt on St. Patrick's Day Culture The global Irish pride felt on St. Patrick's Day History St. Patrick's real name was actually Maewyn Succat Roots Popular Irish boy names as Gaeilge perfect for anybody born during Seachtain na Gaeilge Craic An American woman's first impressions of the famous Irish mammy News COVID live updates: Six deaths reported between Ireland and Northern Ireland Food & Drink The one green thing you shouldn't eat for St. Patrick’s Day Events TUNE IN: Trinity explores the history of the Irish pub for St Patrick’s Day Craic Weird and wonderful facts about St. Patrick and March 17 History Blowing up Nelson’s Pillar and the fate of Nelson’s head Niall O'Dowd Mary Robinson, the woman who changed Ireland News Nine US military flights have stayed overnight at Shannon Airport this year Comments Read this next St. Patrick's real name was actually Maewyn Succat Popular Irish boy names as Gaeilge perfect for anybody born during Seachtain na Gaeilge An American woman's first impressions of the famous Irish mammy Search IrishCentral © Copyright 2021 Irish Studio LLC All rights reserved. Basics Sections IrishCentral Newsletter Follow Us © Copyright 2021 Irish Studio LLC All rights reserved.