  Express. Home of the Daily and Sunday Express. Parkinson’s disease - the morning drink to lower your risk of the brain condition PARKINSON’S disease symptoms develop slowly over a period of time, and could be caused by nerve damage in the brain. Adding this morning drink to your daily diet could lower your chances of the neurodegenerative condition. Are you at risk of Parkinson’s disease? What is Parkinson's disease? When you subscribe we will use the information you provide to send you these newsletters.
Sometimes they'll include recommendations for other related newsletters or services we offer.
Our Privacy Notice explains more about how we use your data, and your rights.
You can unsubscribe at any time. Parkinson’s disease is a condition that causes the brain to become progressively more damaged over time, according to the NHS . It’s caused by a loss of nerve cells in a specific part of the brain, which are used to help send messages between the brain and nervous system. The most common Parkinson’s disease symptoms include tremors and slow movement. But, you could lower your risk of developing the brain condition by drinking coffee, scientists have revealed. Related articles Coffee consumption does seem to have some correlation to a decreased risk of developing Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease Dr Donald Weaver Regularly drinking coffee could help to prevent Parkinson’s disease, as well as Alzheimer’s disease, said scientists from the Krembil Brain Institute, in Canada. Coffee contains compounds, known as phenylindanes, that inhibit proteins from forming that are linked to the brain conditions, they said. Dark-roasted coffee beans provided the best protection, as roasting tends to lead to higher amounts of the compounds. “Coffee consumption does seem to have some correlation to a decreased risk of developing Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease,” said Dr Donald Weaver, Co-Director of the Krembil Brain Institute. “Mother Nature is a much better chemist than we are and Mother Nature is able to make these compounds. “If you have a complicated compound, it's nicer to grow it in a crop, harvest the crop, grind the crop out and extract it than try to make it.”  The researchers are now investigating how beneficial the phenylindanes are, and whether they can enter the bloodstream. But, much more research is needed before coffee’s compounds can be turned into a medical treatment. “What this study does is take the epidemiological evidence and try to refine it and to demonstrate that there are indeed components within coffee that are beneficial to warding off cognitive decline,” said Weaver. “It's interesting, but are we suggesting that coffee is a cure? Absolutely not.” Those most at risk of developing Parkinson’s disease are people over 50 years old, said the NHS. Related articles  Symptoms of Parkinson's One in every 500 people has Parkinson's. It is a progressive neurological condition, that limits movement. Here are the most common signs and symptoms. Tremor - One of the most noticeable signs of Parkinson's is a tremor that often starts in the hands or fingers when they are relaxed About one in every 500 people are affected by Parkinson’s disease in the UK - the equivalent to about 127,000 people. Parkinson’s disease symptoms tend to develop slowly, and only appear as mild at first. You could be at risk of the brain condition if your handwriting seems to have gotten smaller, or if you’ve lost your sense of smell. Speak to a GP if you’re concerned about the signs and symptoms of Parkinson’s disease. The doctor will assess your symptoms and decide whether to refer you to a specialist for further tests. Related articles Most read in Health Latest videos Children Covid tests: Difference between lateral flow & PCR test - Isolation rules change WRC legend Walter Röhrl takes classic Porsche 953 Carrera Paris Dakar for ice trip Avengers Endgame star Chris Evans on why Falcon was the obvious choice to take his shield Georginio Wijnaldum calls for 'patience' from Liverpool fans on contract negotiations HMRC update: Britons warned of looming deadline to claim £125 tax relief - act now Covid vaccine side effects: Do not get second shot if you have an allergic reaction - CDC Diabetes type 2 symptoms: 'Difficulty rising' is a warning sign - do you experience this? Children Covid tests: Difference between lateral flow & PCR test - Isolation rules change Teenager is the only person in the world with unique combination of rare illnesses Statins side effects: Statins may cause weight gain indirectly, research suggests Oprah 'ended up in the emergency room’ after a serious health scare - the symptoms Brazil variant: Where did test and trace discover 'mystery' Brazil variant traveller? Pfizer Covid vaccine side effects: More than one in 10 people suffer joint pain Vitamin B12 deficiency: Three serious warning signs you have 'prolonged' B12 deficiency Dementia symptoms: The three main signs of the cognitive decline disease Brazil variant symptoms: New strain causing concern in UK - full list of signs to spot Diabetes type 2 symptoms: Have you experienced 'foot drop’? Warning sign Olive oil benefits: How to use olive oil on your face for skin moisture and to avoid spots Arthritis symptoms: 15 'unusual' signs of arthritis you may be missing How to get rid of bed bugs: The three steps to avoid bed bug infestation How to live longer: Coconut oil may boost heart health and help keep your weight in check See today's front and back pages, download the newspaper,
order back issues and use the historic Daily Express
newspaper archive. News Latest News Showbiz & TV Sport Pictures Comment Finance Travel Entertainment Life & Style EXPRESS.CO.UK