 Public's generosity towards bullied Syrian refugee is 'true spirit of Britain', May says An online appeal set up to help Jamal after video footage of the attack went viral has raised more than £130,000. Saturday 1 December 2018 06:02, UK The public's response to a Syrian refugee who was filmed being attacked by bullies has shown the "true spirit of Britain", Prime Minister Theresa May has said. Mrs May described the attack on 15-year-old Jamal at a Huddersfield school as "absolutely terrible" and said her thoughts were with him. An online appeal set up to help the family topped £130,000 in 24 hours and football stars from Huddersfield Town invited the boy to be their guest at a Premier League game. Asked about the incident during her visit to the G20 summit in Argentina, Mrs May said: "I thought it was absolutely terrible ... what (he) went through. Our thoughts are with him. "But I think if you look at what happened, the real spirit of Britain came in the response of the British people to that incident. "As you say, most people were sickened and angered by it. The huge response of support ... that we have seen from the British people shows our true spirit and shows we are a welcoming people." Jamal has thanked supporters and met a group of around 30 concerned people outside Almondbury Community School on Thursday. More from West Yorkshire Hundreds warned they face eviction because of Grenfell-style cladding Huddersfield: Factory worker 'stabbed to death confronting group outside plant' as five arrested Sharon Beshenivsky: Man wanted over British policewoman's death arrested in Pakistan Tearful Rob Burrow thanks packed stadium after motor neurone disease diagnosis 'CCTV caught my boyfriend torturing me for three hours and preparing a noose' West Yorkshire Police make 44 arrests over historical child sex abuse claims The teenager told supporters "thanks for everything" before leaving with his father. The group held an hour-long meeting with headteacher Trevor Bowen to address concerns. Imam Mohammed Pandor, one of those among the group, said the meeting was "very productive". He said: "Clearly when someone comes from Syria, fleeing Assad's regime, coming to a place like this, when you get treated that way, that's an issue. And the whole world is looking at us. "We can't accept this type of behaviour whether the victim is Muslim or non-Muslim. It really doesn't matter." Please use Chrome browser for a more accessible video player Footage of the attack - in which Jamal is thrown to the ground by his neck, kicked and has water poured over his face as he is threatened with drowning - was widely shared online. Outrage over the assault saw an online appeal set up to help his family, which raised more than £130,000 in 24 hours. In an ITV interview the boy said he did not feel safe at school and has been left traumatised and frightened by the attack. He said: "I woke up at night and just started crying about this problem. They think I'm different - different from them. "I don't feel safe at school. Sometimes I say to my dad, 'I don't want to go to school anymore'. I was just crying and I didn't do nothing because I respect the school rules." The boy's sister was also filmed being attacked on Tuesday, in a video that showed other students attempting to pull her hijab off. Both teenagers have said they will no longer attend the school in Huddersfield and have said they are looking into what to do next. Force leaders to debate on TV More than 100,000 people have signed the petition - have you? But they said they are concerned over threats on social media towards the boy who allegedly assaulted Jamal, saying: "I don't want anything terrible to happen to him at all. I just don't want anything bad to happen to anyone." A 16-year-old boy has been interviewed over the attack, and reported for summons for an offence of assault ahead of a youth court appearance. West Yorkshire Police said another "unconnected" incident took place on 7 October in which Jamal was left with a wrist injury. Three children were interviewed but officers allowed the matter to be dealt with by the school. About Sky News Down Sky News Services Down Sky Channels Down More Sky Sites Down © 2021 Sky UK