 Vegetarian cannabis restaurant 'to redress outdated stereotypes' Canna Kitchen founders want to "educate society" and say it will open customers' eyes so they experience the plant in new forms. Friday 30 November 2018 16:00, UK The team behind an eatery dubbed Britain's first vegan and vegetarian cannabis restaurant say their aim is to "redress outdated stereotypes" about the drug. The menu features food and drinks infused with legal and non-psychoactive organic cannabinoid products containing the compounds CBD, CBG and CBN. The team describes cannabis as a "versatile and powerful herb, packed full of flavour and fragrance, with a whole range of natural therapeutic benefits". They were inspired by research claiming the plant can boost appetite, tackle pain, and help with digestive problems and reproduction issues as well as stress and memory loss. Founder Sam Evolution wants Canna Kitchen in Brighton to "educate society" and said it will open customers' eyes so they experience the plant in new forms and don't just see it as a recreational drug. The restaurant, which opens to the public on Saturday, will focus on healthy food made from organic local produce. Mr Evolution said: "Our mission is to spark a larger conversation around cannabis, to assist in educating and re-informing society's perceptions of the plant. More from UK Meghan and Harry interview: Duchess tells Oprah there were 'concerns' about Archie's skin colour and she contemplated suicide Meghan and Harry interview latest live: Royal Family rocked as Duchess of Sussex claims there were 'concerns over Archie's skin colour' Meghan and Harry interview: Charles 'stopped taking' son's calls - but Duke of Sussex wants to 'heal' relationship Meghan and Harry interview: Key quotes from bombshell sit-down with Oprah as couple discuss leaving royal life Meghan and Harry on Oprah: Couple reveal they are having a baby girl and speak of 'fairytale' life in US COVID news live - latest updates: Roadmap out of lockdown begins as kids head back to classrooms and rules on outdoor meetings relaxed "The Canna Kitchen aims to achieve this by offering people an opportunity to experience the plant in a form that may be new to them." Head chef Charlotte Kjaer is experimenting with dishes including Zaa'tar roasted cauliflower, hemp heart tabbouleh, smoked aubergine, sesame Cavolo Nero and buckwheat and beetroot pancakes served with refreshments like non-alcoholic hash beer. She said: "I enjoy to cook with the seasons and in harmony with nature, a diet rich in seasonal plant-based food is not only nutritious for the body, but also beneficial for the planet. "I aim to create honest, balanced and vibrant food." Force leaders to debate on TV More than 100,000 people have signed the petition - have you? Mr Evolution said there has been overwhelming support with many people "keen to see the plant receive the acknowledgement it truly deserves". But there had also been criticism from some who "seem to struggle with separating outdated definitions of the plant", he said. He is confident his restaurant is the first of its kind, adding: "I researched heavily into any other legal restaurant establishments in the UK, and aside from a pop up in 2015, I could find no other projects of this nature." Other venues experimenting in this area include a coffee shop in Swansea which opened earlier this year, reportedly offering customers the chance to add shots of cannabis oil to drinks. Purezza - which brands itself the first vegan pizzeria in the UK with restaurants in Brighton and London - offers a hemp flour pizza base. About Sky News Down Sky News Services Down Sky Channels Down More Sky Sites Down © 2021 Sky UK