 Incredibly accurate atomic clocks may detect faint signals from dark matter Atomic clocks are nothing new, these timepieces have been around for many years. Scientists working on experimental atomic clocks at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) have reported three new performance records for their clocks. The team says that the clocks have improved accuracy enough that not only are they going to improve timekeeping and navigation, but they may be sensitive enough to detect faint signals from gravity, the early universe, and dark matter. Each of the new atomic clocks traps a thousand ytterbium atoms in grids that are made of laser beams. The atoms tick by switching between two energy levels. The researchers can compare the two independent clocks allowing them to improve systematic uncertainty, stability, and reproducibility. Systematic uncertainty is how well the clock can represent the natural vibrations of the atoms captured in the laser lattice. The team found the clock had a possible error of one billionth of a billionth from the natural ticking frequency of the atoms. Stability is how much the clock frequency changes over time, in this case, it changes 0.00000000000000000032 during a day. Reproducibility is how close the two clocks tick at the same frequency, the frequency difference was less than one billionth of a billionth in this test. The ytterbium atomic clocks exceed the conventional capability to measure the shape of the Earth (geodetic measurement) based on tidal gauge surveys of sea level. Researchers say that a comparison of these clocks located far apart, on different continents, could provide geodetic measurements within 1 centimeter, better than the current several centimeters. Some of the improvements to the new clock include thermal and electric shielding that surrounds atoms to protect them from stray electric fields. Ytterbium atoms are one of the potential candidates to be used in the future redefinition of the second. Scientists are currently redefining all sorts of measurements, including a recent redefinition of how to describe a kilogram . Each of the new atomic clocks traps a thousand ytterbium atoms in grids that are made of laser beams. The atoms tick by switching between two energy levels. The researchers can compare the two independent clocks allowing them to improve systematic uncertainty, stability, and reproducibility. Systematic uncertainty is how well the clock can represent the natural vibrations of the atoms captured in the laser lattice. The team found the clock had a possible error of one billionth of a billionth from the natural ticking frequency of the atoms. Stability is how much the clock frequency changes over time, in this case, it changes 0.00000000000000000032 during a day. Reproducibility is how close the two clocks tick at the same frequency, the frequency difference was less than one billionth of a billionth in this test. The ytterbium atomic clocks exceed the conventional capability to measure the shape of the Earth (geodetic measurement) based on tidal gauge surveys of sea level. Researchers say that a comparison of these clocks located far apart, on different continents, could provide geodetic measurements within 1 centimeter, better than the current several centimeters. Some of the improvements to the new clock include thermal and electric shielding that surrounds atoms to protect them from stray electric fields. Ytterbium atoms are one of the potential candidates to be used in the future redefinition of the second. Scientists are currently redefining all sorts of measurements, including a recent redefinition of how to describe a kilogram . Each of the new atomic clocks traps a thousand ytterbium atoms in grids that are made of laser beams. The atoms tick by switching between two energy levels. The researchers can compare the two independent clocks allowing them to improve systematic uncertainty, stability, and reproducibility. Systematic uncertainty is how well the clock can represent the natural vibrations of the atoms captured in the laser lattice. The team found the clock had a possible error of one billionth of a billionth from the natural ticking frequency of the atoms. Stability is how much the clock frequency changes over time, in this case, it changes 0.00000000000000000032 during a day. Reproducibility is how close the two clocks tick at the same frequency, the frequency difference was less than one billionth of a billionth in this test. The ytterbium atomic clocks exceed the conventional capability to measure the shape of the Earth (geodetic measurement) based on tidal gauge surveys of sea level. Researchers say that a comparison of these clocks located far apart, on different continents, could provide geodetic measurements within 1 centimeter, better than the current several centimeters. Some of the improvements to the new clock include thermal and electric shielding that surrounds atoms to protect them from stray electric fields. Ytterbium atoms are one of the potential candidates to be used in the future redefinition of the second. Scientists are currently redefining all sorts of measurements, including a recent redefinition of how to describe a kilogram . Systematic uncertainty is how well the clock can represent the natural vibrations of the atoms captured in the laser lattice. The team found the clock had a possible error of one billionth of a billionth from the natural ticking frequency of the atoms. Stability is how much the clock frequency changes over time, in this case, it changes 0.00000000000000000032 during a day. Reproducibility is how close the two clocks tick at the same frequency, the frequency difference was less than one billionth of a billionth in this test. The ytterbium atomic clocks exceed the conventional capability to measure the shape of the Earth (geodetic measurement) based on tidal gauge surveys of sea level. Researchers say that a comparison of these clocks located far apart, on different continents, could provide geodetic measurements within 1 centimeter, better than the current several centimeters. Some of the improvements to the new clock include thermal and electric shielding that surrounds atoms to protect them from stray electric fields. Ytterbium atoms are one of the potential candidates to be used in the future redefinition of the second. Scientists are currently redefining all sorts of measurements, including a recent redefinition of how to describe a kilogram . The ytterbium atomic clocks exceed the conventional capability to measure the shape of the Earth (geodetic measurement) based on tidal gauge surveys of sea level. Researchers say that a comparison of these clocks located far apart, on different continents, could provide geodetic measurements within 1 centimeter, better than the current several centimeters. Some of the improvements to the new clock include thermal and electric shielding that surrounds atoms to protect them from stray electric fields. Ytterbium atoms are one of the potential candidates to be used in the future redefinition of the second. Scientists are currently redefining all sorts of measurements, including a recent redefinition of how to describe a kilogram . Some of the improvements to the new clock include thermal and electric shielding that surrounds atoms to protect them from stray electric fields. Ytterbium atoms are one of the potential candidates to be used in the future redefinition of the second. Scientists are currently redefining all sorts of measurements, including a recent redefinition of how to describe a kilogram . Volvo marshals hype and humility on the electric car precipice 2022 Chevrolet Bolt EUV First Drive Review – An affordable electric makeover 2021 GMC Sierra 1500 AT4 Review – Desirable Diesel 2021 Audi RS7 Sportback Review – When you can only choose one The 2022 Mercedes-Benz C-Class learns its lessons from the best NASA says comets could have delivered carbon to rocky planets 2021 Mansory Stallone GTS is a Ferrari 812 convertible with 830HP Researchers eye cactus as a drought-tolerant crop for biofuel and more Watch Dogs: Legion multiplayer for PC delayed until further notice AYA-NEO puts a different spin on the PC gaming handheld Super Mario 3D World + Bowser’s Fury Review: A ton of fun, but it still costs too much 2021 Volkswagen Arteon Review – Style with a side of exclusivity 2021 GMC Sierra 1500 AT4 Review – Desirable Diesel 2021 Audi RS7 Sportback Review – When you can only choose one ELEGOO Mars Pro Review – A tiny 3D printing titan Site Information Policies Social and Media