 Nairobi News Two employees at JKIA arrested for stealing passenger’s money Detectives have arrested two employees at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) for stealing thousands of dollars belonging to a passenger. Mr Kennedy Ochieng, 22, and Mr Kevin Ogega, 25, who both work for Tropical Promoters, a company which offers trolley services at the airport, allegedly stole the money which was found in their possession after a search. Related Stories Police did not say how and where they stole the money from. STOLEN MONEY In May this year, an Iranian reported to the police that Sh750,000 disappeared from his bag at the airport in unclear circumstances. Mehrah Hassan, 30, said he arrived from Qatar aboard flight 1335 on Wednesday and was carrying US$7,500 in his bag. “He was profiled and cleared by Immigration officers. He proceeded to the forex bureau to change the money. But when he opened the bag he only found a bundle amounting to US$100 (Sh10,000),” the police said of the incident where no one was arrested. Nairobi News is now available on Telegram. For handpicked stories every day, subscribe to our channel today Latest Stories Samidoh, wife seek divine intervention after week of... Gospel singer Loise Kim advises Kenyan women to stick with... Why health workers in Kenya are hesitant to take Covid-19... Arrival of six more DMU trains to double Nairobi capacity Meghan Markle says she contemplated suicide, alleges royal... Police arrest six Sim-swap fraud suspects in Kasarani KenyaBuzz Chaos Walking  Critical Thinking  Monster Hunter  Unseen Gems Join us for another Unseen Gems with this month's movie,... 7 Islands Festival The 7 Islands festival will bring together the finest acts... International Women's Day: Feminist/Women's Rights Organizations in Kenya International Women's Day: Feminist/Women's Rights... Most Popular Karen Nyamu responds after Samidoh chooses wife over her Shebesh: Bipolar disorder almost drove me to suicide DJ Mo replaced on NTV gospel show Don't Miss Samidoh, wife seek divine intervention after week of marriage drama Gospel singer Loise Kim advises Kenyan women to stick with cheating husbands Why health workers in Kenya are hesitant to take Covid-19 vaccine