 Nigeria: Policy Reforms to Grow Nigeria's Digital Economy Lagos — MODERSNISING regulation and policy reform will boost Nigeria's digital economy and accelerate internet access for millions through increased mobile broadband penetration. This is according to the Global System for Mobile Communications, commonly referred to as GSMA. ... AllAfrica Subscription Content You must be an allAfrica.com subscriber for full access to certain content. You have selected an article from the AllAfrica archive, which requires a subscription. You can subscribe by visiting our subscription page . Or for more information about becoming a subscriber, you can read our subscription and contribution overview You can also freely access - without a subscription - hundreds of today's top Africa stories and thousands of recent news articles from our home page » Already a subscriber? Sign in for full access to article Top Headlines: Nigeria More From: CAJ News AllAfrica publishes around 800 reports a day from more than 130 news organizations and over 500 other institutions and individuals , representing a diversity of positions on every topic. We publish news and views ranging from vigorous opponents of governments to government publications and spokespersons. Publishers named above each report are responsible for their own content, which AllAfrica does not have the legal right to edit or correct. Articles and commentaries that identify allAfrica.com as the publisher are produced or commissioned by AllAfrica . To address comments or complaints, please Contact us . AllAfrica is a voice of, by and about Africa - aggregating, producing and distributing 800 news and information items daily from over 130 African news organizations and our own reporters to an African and global public. We operate from Cape Town, Dakar, Abuja, Johannesburg, Nairobi and Washington DC. Sign up for free AllAfrica Newsletters Get the latest in African news delivered straight to your inbox By submitting above, you agree to our privacy policy . Success! Almost finished... We need to confirm your email address. To complete the process, please follow the instructions in the email we just sent you. Error! Error! There was a problem processing your submission. Please try again later.