 Man saves the life of 18-month-old baby by pulling him out of the water when he thought he was a doll ‘He let out a little squeak and I thought ‘oh God this is a baby and it’s alive” A fisherman has saved the life of an 18-month-old boy he spotted floating in the water who he originally thought “was a doll.” Gus Hutt, who normally fishes 100 metres from the spot he did that morning, was casting his line when he saw the small figure floating in the water. The little boy had somehow escaped from a tent where he family was staying and got to the beach. The i newsletter latest news and analysis ‘As he floated past I thought he was just a doll’ Mr Hutt, who was fishing on Matata beach, at the Bay of Plenty in New Zealand, told Whakatane Beacon: “I reached out and grabbed him by the arm; even then I still thought it was just a doll. “His face looked just like porcelain with his short hair wetted down, but then and he let out a little squeak and I thought ‘oh God this is a baby and it’s alive’.” The 18-month-old escaped from the nearby tent by pulling at the zip and crawling out onto the beach. The family were staying at Murphy’s Holiday Camp when the boy escaped from the enclosure. The boy’s mother, Jessica Whyte, was woken by camp managers who told her what had happened. “I don’t think my heart [beat] from hearing that to seeing him. I don’t think my heart worked,” she said. Mr Hutt told the New Zealand Herald: “He was floating at a steady pace with a rip in the water. If I hadn’t been there, or if I had just been a minute later I wouldn’t have seen him. “He was bloody lucky, but he just wasn’t meant to go; it wasn’t his time.” Opened a tent zip The boy was treated the boy for 15 minutes before an ambulance arrived to take him to Whakatane Hospital. Authorities confirmed to the BBC that he was in good health. The Matata volunteer fire brigade has spoken out to warn families who are staying in tents on the beach to stay in accommodation that doesn’t have a reachable zip. Topics Most Popular Woman behind Oxford vaccine 'pleasantly surprised by the effectiveness data' as world uses jab When hairdressers could open after lockdown restrictions are eased How to watch Harry and Meghan’s Oprah interview in UK: What time it starts on ITV tonight When the 5th SEISS self-employed grant will be, and who qualifies after Budget announcement How to claim the 4th SEISS payment, the application explained and latest on when you can apply The i newsletter latest news and analysis Essentials Useful links Follow us on All rights reserved. © 2021 Associated Newspapers Limited.