 British sailors rescued by Thai fisherman after chartered 50ft catamaran catches fire in lightning strike Follow the author of this article Follow the topics within this article N ine British sailing enthusiasts were saved by Thai fishermen after their rented yacht caught fire when it was hit by lightning. The four couples and a woman were on the 50ft catamaran in Phang Nga Bay, off the coast of Phuket, when they were caught in a tropical storm. As high winds rocked the chartered vessel at around 4.30pm on Saturday, those on board took cover below deck. But half an hour later, lightning struck and the yacht started to burn. Luckily for the architects, lawyers and accountants on board, Thai fishermen were on hand to haul them ashore as the burning catamaran sank. The tourists were named by The Times as William, 65, and Lilias Tennant, 68; Catherine, 64, and Stewart Toy, 66; Kelvin, 65, and Susan Atkinson, 64; Anne, 63, and Martin Anderson, 59; and Magret Hamilton, 64. L awyer Mr Tennant is understood to have served as Lord Cornet of Lanark in 1989 - an honorary position which involves being the town's representative for a year. And his wife Lilias was said to have served as a director of the Society of Law Accountants in Scotland during her career, which recently ended having retired from Mr Tennant's law firm. The group - who were thought to be experienced sailors - had only arrived in Phuket on Friday and were taken to safety without any injuries, it was reported.  Related Topics Follow The Telegraph Follow The Telegraph News latest Comment: SNP's poll ratings have tanked - and about time too Live Coronavirus latest news: Facemasks in lessons not compulsory due to pupil anxiety, says minister Live Travel news latest: 'Exit permit' for travellers comes into force today Live Harry and Meghan's Oprah interview: Pressure on Buckingham Palace to investigate racism allegations Live Politics latest news: David Frost 'playing games around Brexit', claims former mandarin Myanmar's military occupy hospitals as trade unions call for a general strike Comment: Harry and Meghan have well and truly trashed the Royal Family's reputation in America Holi Festival 2021: how the thwarting of a Hindu demon king led to the colourful celebration How the Spring Equinox marks the changing seasons St Patrick's Day 2021: shamrocks, snakes and how a British slave became Ireland's patron saint Watch: 'The interview can't be undone': Why there's no way back for Meghan, Harry and the Royal family Oprah with Meghan and Harry interview review: Sussexes deliver enough bombshells to sink a flotilla Forget hiding behind the sofa, the Royal family needed a bullet-proof vest as Harry and Meghan let rip Harry and Meghan's Oprah interview bombshells: They accuse Royal family of racism, reveal Duchess had suicidal thoughts and say Kate made Meghan cry Key quotes: Meghan and Harry on mental health, family relations and Archie's skin tone 'Kate made me cry': Duchess of Sussex claims it was the Duchess of Cambridge who upset her in row over bridesmaids dresses Harry and Meghan got married in secret three days before their fairytale public wedding Duchess of Sussex reveals she contemplated suicide when pregnant due to 'stress' and 'isolation' 'It's a girl': Harry and Meghan reveal gender of second child in Oprah Winfrey interview Harry and Meghan announce they are expecting a baby girl - latest news on due date and royal name odds Princess Diana foresaw Prince Harry's departure from Royal family, Duke claims We've noticed you're adblocking. We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism. We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future. Thank you for your support. Need help? Visit our adblocking instructions page.