 LOG IN ACCOUNT Follow us: Log in with Evening Standard Not registered? Register here How Alexa could save your life: the charities using Amazon Alexa skills to have an impact in people’s homes Smart speakers can do more than tell you the news and the weather forecast hat do you use your Amazon Echo for? To listen to Spotify, hear the headlines or maybe to check the weather forecast? With over 30,000 Alexa skills available, smart home devices can do so much more than this and UK charities are taking advantage of the growing use of voice technology. Through Alexa, charities can offer people health advice, allow them to make donations and even catch up all the all-important science headlines. With more and more people buying smart speakers - one in 10 people in the UK own a device - voice tech is the new way for charities to reach people in their homes. Breast Cancer Care: raising awareness of breast cancer symptoms Only 48 per cent of women in the UK are regularly checking their breasts for breast cancer symptoms, which is one of the reasons the charity Breast Cancer Care has launched its new Alexa skill to share information on the signs and symptoms of the disease. The new tool guides women through a breast check to highlight the eight most common signals to look out for. If you have been diagnosed with breast cancer, you can use the Amazon Echo to hear information and tips for the charity’s treatment support app, BECCA. Articles included in this skill include features such as managing long-term side effects, to empowering blogs by people who have been diagnosed too. To access the skills, say " Alexa, open Breast Cancer Care ," or enable the BECCA Daily 5 skill in the Alexa app. Speaking about the new Alexa skill, Addie Mitchell, clinical nurse specialist at Breast Cancer Care, said: “We know a third of women in the UK aren’t regularly checking their breasts, so having Alexa on hand to guide them will help empower many with the confidence to build this potentially lifesaving habit into their routine. “Whatever your age it’s so important to get to know your breasts, and if you do spot anything unusual – be it a lump, redness or an inverted nipple - get it checked out by your GP.” British Heart Foundation: donate furniture and money The British Heart Foundation (BHF) became the first UK charity to receive donations through Amazon Pay via Alexa earlier this year. By enabling the BHS skill in the Alexa app or simply speaking to an Amazon Echo, people can make one-off donations or organise a collection of unwanted furniture and electrical items which will then be sold in one of the charities stores around the UK. To activate this feature, say: “Alexa, ask British Heart Foundation to collect my furniture”, or “Alexa, open British Heart Foundation and donate money.” Once you make a donation, Londoner Rebecca Shorrocks who was diagnosed with a rare genetic heart muscle disease last year, then shares her story and thanks supporters. It’s never been easier to contribute to a charity and make a difference. BHF said it is embracing new technologies in order to discover alternative ways to fund its research. “We’re constantly adapting as an organisation to be where our supporters are and to give people choice to make donating as easy as possible. We’re excited to add the Amazon Alexa onto a long list of ways that people can help fund our life-saving research,” said the charity’s chief executive, Simon Gillespie. Cancer Research UK: alcohol tracking We all know that drinking alcohol can cause cancer , even if many of us choose to shun the warnings on a Friday night in the pub. As a result, Cancer Research UK’s Alexa skill wants to help us understand our alcohol intake and keep track of units through Amazon Echo. Using the My Alcohol Tracker skill , you can set a goal of how many units you want to drink that week, add drinks to the weekly total and get a summary of how well you’re doing. Alexa can also tell you hints and tips on ways to cut down, as well as how many doughnuts a glass of wine is, which may help you to reconsider your drinking. Tiffany Hall, Cancer Research UK’s chief information officer told the Standard: “At Cancer Research UK we’ve explored using voice-enabled speakers as a new way for people to get health information. The My Alcohol Tracker Alexa Skill lets users track how much they’re drinking and set goals to cut down. It also helps raise awareness of the link between alcohol and cancer. “We’re always trying to innovate and we’ll continue to look for opportunities for technology to give people access to information about cancer.” Cancer Research UK is taking advantage of Alexa in other ways. If you listen to the news in the morning, you can enable the charity’s Science blog flash briefing which will give you the headlines and the top four recent articles from the blog. You could be listening to a behind-the-headlines take on mobile phones and cancer, how bowel cancer starts or how the Nobel Prize winners could help generate new cancer treatment. Now, Alexa can do more than just tell you the news, it could save your life too. Trending Promoted stories Follow us: