 FOLLOW ON Advertisement Two people charged after police seize 14.7 kg of cannabis from home Cannabis harvested in Fenwick, Ont., is photographed on June 26, 2018. THE CANADIAN PRESS/Tijana Martin Share: Text: CLEARVIEW TOWNSHIP, Ont. - Provincial police say two people are facing drug charges after officers seized 14.7 kilograms of dry cannabis from a home in Clearview Township, Ont. Investigators say they searched a home last week and also seized more than 16,000 unmarked cigarettes. Police say two men, aged 47 and 54, have been charged with possession of cannabis for the purpose of distributing and selling. They're also facing charges of cultivating an illicit cannabis plant, and possession of unmarked cigarettes for sale. Officers say their investigation is ongoing. Related Stories Share: MORE NEWS FROM CANADA Statistics Canada considered delaying this year's census to 2022 due to pandemic Canada set to receive more than 910,000 doses of COVID-19 vaccines this week COVID-19 pandemic prompts recent newcomers to leave Canada for their home countries Canadians, especially women, say gender equality not achieved in Canada: Poll 'It's been a good week': Tam hopeful on vaccines as pandemic anniversary nears Are there mussels on your moss balls? Alberta officials warn of tiny invasive species Top Videos CTV National News for March 7: Big rift in The Royal Family Prince Harry, Meghan break the silence in tell-all interview Sask. snowboarder safely lands after dangling from chairlift CTVNews.ca Top Stories Revealing Meghan and Harry interview shakes Royal Family Bombshells from royal interview: The most dramatic disclosures from Prince Harry and Meghan Pattie Lovett-Reid: International Women's Day and we are not OK? 5 things to know for Monday, March 8, 2021 French aviation billionaire, pilot die in helicopter crash COVID-19 survivors struggle with nightmares, anxiety and other PTSD symptoms, research shows Don't Miss Ont. man uses TikTok to give clues for hidden money Sport trading cards prices skyrocket during the pandemic Booming goose population a problem for Vancouver parks Advertisement MOST-READ Bombshells from royal interview: The most dramatic disclosures from Prince Harry and Meghan Meghan and Harry interview with Oprah lays bare royal rift Biggest, fastest-known asteroid to pass by Earth later this month Elon Musk lost US$27 billion last week MOST-WATCHED CTV National News for Sunday, March 7, 2021 Richard Berthelsen reacts to the interview CTV National News: Meghan, Harry tell-all 9 key moments for Prince Harry and Meghan LISTEN TO THE LATEST A daily politics podcast Listen and subscribe to get a daily fix on the latest political news and issues. A weekly politics podcast Listen and subscribe to get a weekly update with the newsmakers who matter. A public opinion podcast A check-in on the public mood of Canadians with hosts Michael Stittle and Nik Nanos. Use of this Website assumes acceptance of Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy © 2021 All rights reserved. Back to top