 Asda, Morrisons, Tesco and Sainsbury's announce petrol price cuts of up to 2p a litre in 'long overdue' fuel war starting tonight By Rory Tingle For Mailonline Published: 13:19 GMT, 6 November 2018 | Updated: 17:46 GMT, 6 November 2018  340 View comments  Four supermarkets have announced petrol price cuts of up to 2p per litre. Asda , Morrisons, Sainsbury's and Tesco made the move after fuel retailers were accused of not passing on savings from lower wholesale costs. Over the past six months, the cost of filling up a typical 55-litre family car that runs on petrol or diesel has risen by around £6. Asda, Morrisons, Sainsbury's and Tesco cut their prices after fuel retailers were accused of not passing on savings from lower wholesale costs. Pictured: An Asda station in south-east London The average cost of fuel at UK filling stations stands at £1.30 per litre for petrol, according to new Government figures. Asda said the 2p price cut would now mean customers would never pay more than 122.7p per litre for petrol and 134.7 for diesel. Owners of diesel vehicles have been hit by fuel price rises for 18 consecutive weeks, reaching an average of £1.37 per litre. RELATED ARTICLES Share this article The last time diesel was this expensive was March 2014. AA fuel spokesman Luke Bosdet said he 'watched with dismay' as petrol pump prices 'trickled down by barely a penny' last month despite the wholesale price falling by 4p per litre. The RAC described the supermarket price drop as 'excellent news', but insisted it is 'long overdue' as fuel retailers have 'not played fair with drivers in a falling wholesale market'. Owners of diesel vehicles have been hit by fuel price rises for 18 consecutive weeks, reaching an average of £1.37 per litre. Pictured: A woman refuels at a Morrisons forecourt It is Asda's second petrol price reduction in less than two weeks. The supermarket's senior fuel buyer, Dave Tyrer, said: 'Our new national price cap of 122.7p per litre will be welcomed by the millions of drivers across the UK. 'Further decreases in the wholesale market mean we are able to reduce our prices again, seeing our unleaded price dropped by up to 5p per litre in just under two weeks.' Asda has brought in the price cut straight away while Tesco's will begin this evening. Morrisons will wait until tomorrow and Sainsbury's Thursday. Share or comment on this article: Asda, Morrisons, Tesco and Sainsbury's announce petrol price cuts of up to 2p a litre Most watched News videos More top stories DON'T MISS more don'T MISS Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group