EURO-THRONE Europe should become EMPIRE to compete with China and US, says French minister after Trump rubbishes calls for EU army
Bruno Le Maire’s controversial comments come after his President said Europe must be strong enough to defend itself in the future FRANCE'S finance minister has called for the EU to become a powerful new “empire” to rival the US and China in an interview which will infuriate Donald Trump.

Bruno Le Maire’s comments come after the French President said Europe must be strong enough to defend itself in the future - words the US president called "insulting." French finance minister Bruno Le Maire believed the EU should become an empire Le Maire controversial calls for a new superstate came as he backed Emnanuel Macron’s call for a “real European army”.

And he suggested Brussels should go one even further and establish itself as an “empire”.

"It's about Europe having to become a kind of Empire, as China is. And how the US is," the French finance minister told the German newspaper Handelsblatt.

After being quizzed by the newspaper on his comments, he added: “Do not get me wrong, I'm talking about a peaceful empire that's a constitutional state. Napoleon's dreams of a European empire were crushed in the Battle of Waterloo Donald Trump has hit back at the French President over his suggestion for the EU to built its own army Emmanuel Macron calls for creation of a ‘true European army’ to defend against Russia and the US "I use the term to raise awareness that the world of tomorrow will be about power. Power will make a difference: technological power, economic, financial, monetary, cultural power will be crucial."

Trump has blasted Macron's idea for the European Union to build an army to protect itself from the US as "insulting".

The US President tweeted: "President Macron of France has just suggested that Europe build its own military in order to protect itself from the US, China and Russia.

"Very insulting, but perhaps Europe should first pay its fair share of NATO, which the US subsidises greatly!"

It comes three days after the French President said the US is as big a threat to the EU as Russia and China and called for a “true European army” to defend the bloc.

In an extraordinary attack on the US president, Macron lumped Washington together with Moscow and Beijing as Europe’s biggest foes.

The arch euro federalist insisted only a fully fledged EU defence force can protect the continent against the trio’s aggression. French president Emmanuel Macron has deemed the US an equally big threat to the EU as Russia and China He said: “We have to protect ourselves with respect to China, Russia and even the United States of America.

“We will not protect the Europeans unless we decide to have a true European army.”

The French president lashed Mr Trump for deciding to pull the US out of a nuclear treaty with Russia that was signed during the Cold War.

He raged: “When I see President Trump announcing that he’s quitting a major disarmament treaty which was formed after the 1980s euro-missile crisis that hit Europe, who is the main victim? Europe and its security.”

Mr Macron made the comments in a radio interview from the town of Verdun - the site of a major WW1 battle - as he tours the Western Front ahead of Remembrance Day. Macron lashed Mr Trump for deciding to pull the US out of a nuclear treaty with Russia that was signed during the Cold War They were welcomed by the EU Commission, which said it has already put the wheels in motion for the eventual creation of a euro army.

A spokesman beamed: “If there is a Commission that has put forward the need for a meaningful defence identity for the EU, it’s this Commission.

“President Macron has been consistently putting forward this narrative for a stronger Europe that empowers and protects.

“This is totally totally compatible with our work and all contributions from our EU leaders, and especially from President Macron, are very much welcome.” The French president made the comments at an event commemorating 100 years since WW1 But the remarks were savaged by former British Army commanders, who said the revelations showed why the UK must pull out of the EU’s defence plans.

Major General Julian Thompson, who led British forces in the Falklands, told The Sun: “The EU Commission now openly admits it has created the preamble to an EU army.

"The UK is in that preamble and risks being kept in it.

“Ministers must withdraw or risk losing forever whole chunks of the UK’s democratic control over defence.”

Colonel Richard Kemp urged ministers to take action and 'rein in what the have agreed since the referendum' Tory MEP Geoffrey Van Orden said Macron should be working on facilitating the relationship with the UK and strengthening NATO alliance Colonel Richard Kemp, a commander of UK troops in Afghanistan, added: “This is precisely what eurosceptics have been warning about.

“It is time for ministers now to take notice and rein in what they have agreed since the referendum. "They have been led astray in the most crucial area of sovereignty.”

And Tory MEP Geoffrey Van Orden, a former British Army Brigadier, raged: “Instead of 18th century dreams of French-led European grandeur, President Macron should be helping build Western solidarity.

“That means helping and not obstructing a strong partnership with Britain and strengthening the NATO alliance.”