PRICED OUT Katie Price suffers another financial blow ahead of bankruptcy hearing as she ‘still owes ex Kieran Hayler tens of thousands’ in divorce row
The former stripper is determined to fight her for what he is owed after appearing in her reality shows KATIE Price suffered another financial blow after being told she "still owes ex Kieran Hayler tens of thousands" in their divorce.

The cash strapped star, whose bankruptcy hearing has been pushed back to December 4, asked the former stripper for a quickie £300 divorce online – but he refused. Katie Price is keen for a quickie divorce from Kieran Hayler but he has refused Now he is determined to recoup his wages from appearing in her reality shows, before she goes bust.

A source said: "Kieran wants to be paid his fair share when the divorce finally goes through and he’s telling friends he never saw any of the money that he was supposed to get from appearing on Katie’s TV shows – My Crazy Life or Pony Club.

"Or, from any of the magazine shoots they did as a couple when they were still married.

"Now Katie’s headed to bankruptcy court, he wants to make sure he gets the money. That’s why the divorce is moving so slowly – he wants what he’s owed. Kieran and Katie got married back in 2013 and share two children "It’s tens of thousands – but the question is, does Katie have it?"

Friends of the 40-year-old star told The Sun Online back in June that she is desperate to draw a line under their marriage and end it, but Kieran, 31, wasn't keen to finish things so quickly.

A source said back in June: “Katie thinks that they should be able to end the marriage quickly and quietly with a £300 online divorce, and put the idea to Kieran.

“She doesn’t see the point in spending money and time on lawyers and a huge divorce case when they could do it online.
 Katie moved on with Kris Boyson and the pair recently reunited after a two month break, during which time she dated another toyboy, Alex Adderson “After all, they both know the marriage is over and there’s no way back now. But when she suggested it to Kieran he refused flat out." Elsewhere, Katie has angered her first ex-husband Peter Andre by not telling him that their kids Junior, 13, and Princess, 11, filmed My Crazy Life after she was released from rehab.

The kids appeared on Katie’s social media for the first time in months last week – but insiders told The Sun Online that they also joined their mum on her reality show, and their dad had no idea. Peter Andre is furious at Katie Price for not telling him she would be filming their kids for her reality show My Crazy Life The show source said: “Pete was surprised to hear that as soon as Katie saw the kids, they were on camera and filming for the show. I wouldn’t be surprised if he was furious – it’s the kind of thing that should have been communicated.

“They’ve filmed a lot for the show in the past and that was agreed on but Pete had no idea that they’d be on camera for this recent reunion.”

Katie recently reunited with her toyboy lover Kris Boyson, after a two month split during which time she dated 25-year-old Alex Adderson. Charlotte Dawson in talks for Katie Price-style reality show as she plans to invite cameras into her home