 screenrant.com Follow ScreenRant.com Something New More Nuketown Trailer for Black Ops 4 Finally Arrives Treyarch and Activision unveil the trailer for Call of Duty: Black Ops 4's fan-favorite Nuketown map ahead of its November 13 release. The Cold War is heating up as the iconic Nuketown finally makes its way into Call of Duty: Black Ops 4 . Treyarch and Activision are switching things up with the long-running shooter franchise and have ditched a single-player campaign in favor of multiplayer. Although plenty has changed, Nuketown is back with a vengeance. First introduced in 2010's Call of Duty: Black Ops , Nuketown has become synonymous with the series and sure to be a fan-favorite addition to the latest game. Remembered for its close-quarters combat, Nuketown sticks with the same basic blueprint but changes its scenery with each appearance. Black Ops 4 owners already knew that Nuketown was coming for free, but the wait is finally over. Related: Black Ops 4 is Being Ruined With Grind vs. Microtransactions Progression Treyarch had already teased a winter-themed backdrop for the Nuketown map, and the first trailer shows it off in all its frozen glory. The short video has several specialists at work and features the return of Nuketown's two main houses. Aerial attacks and rovers look to be particularly dangerous as players are picked off from above and on the ground while leaving nowhere to hide. Despite the new Nuketown being a million miles away from the 1950s suburbs that fans first got to grips with, the threat of nuclear attack is still at the forefront. Whether sticking to the upper floors and a crafty sniper position or just storming Nuketown all guns blazing, there's something for everyone. Interestingly, it looks like the center of the map is hiding a possible way for gamers to launch their own nuke against enemy forces. Either way, Nuketown is back and more explosive than ever. Call of Duty: Black Ops 4 hasn't come without its criticism, so here's hoping that Nuketown can bring a bit of old-school gameplay back to the title. As well as the controversy surrounding microtransactions , even a former Treyarch employee has blasted Black Ops 4 . That being said, Nuketown is an impressive new addition and comes ahead of new DLCs and an expanding Zombies mode. There are still rumors of Treyarch adding zombies to Nuketown , so who knows, maybe players will get to blast some Russian zombies to pieces before too long? Activision has an exclusive deal with Sony, meaning Nuketown will debut on the PlayStation 4 on November 13. There's no official date for the Xbox One and Windows PC release of the map, but with the Sony deal only lasting seven days instead of the usual 30, players could be saying "do svidaniya" sooner than they first thought. Either way, it just wouldn't be Call of Duty: Black Ops 4 without a trip to Nuketown. More: Blackout Has A Problem - What Happens When The NEXT Call Of Duty Releases? More: Blackout Has A Problem - What Happens When The NEXT Call Of Duty Releases? Source: YouTube  Tom Chapman is a Manchester-based writer with square eyes and the love of a good pun. Raised on a diet of Jurassic Park and Jumanji, this '90s boy had VHS movies flowing in his blood from a young age. Heading into further education, Tom turned his passion for the silver screen into a degree in Broadcast Journalism at Leeds University. These days, he is addicted to all things Game of Thrones, The Walking Dead, and Westworld, while reading up on what the X-Men are doing and imagining a life in Gotham City. Having previously worked at What Culture, Movie Pilot, and Digital Spy, Tom is now finding his way at Screen Rant and CBR. No topic is too big or too small for this freelance writer by day, crime-fighting vigilante by night. Popular Now Is Sora the Next Smash Bros. DLC Character? The New Version of Wolverine is Literally a Wild Animal Fuller House Killed Any Chance Of Another Full House Spin-Off GTA 6 Rival Everywhere May Come To PS5, Xbox Series X Sooner Than Expected Breath Of The Wild's Terrifying Unused Divine Beasts Why The Batman Needs To Avoid The Dark Knight's Powers Restriction trending now Elder Scrolls 6 Should Offer A GTA Online-Style Multiplayer Mode Humble Bundle Announces $1 Million Fund For Black Game Developers Among Us Streamer Corpse Husband Receives Billboard In Times Square Read Next in gaming Vissles-M Portable Touchscreen Monitor Review Star Wars' Jedi Temple Guards Explained (& What Happened To Them) Star Wars: Anakin Did What Qui-Gon Couldn't Nintendo Retail Store Vandalized in NYC Riots How to Find (& Unlock) Metatron in Persona 5 Strikers How to Create Secret Areas with Warp Pipes in Animal Crossing GTA Online Is Making $1200 A MINUTE After Alien War How to Craft a Debugging Station in Breathedge 90 Day Fiancé: Mike Youngquist's Bluetooth Device May Be A Hearing Aid More