 Ryanair launches sale with flights starting at €7.99 - but they won't be around for long BY: Jack Beresford November 13, 2018 RYANAIR HAS launched a flash sale offering flights to a variety of popular European destinations from as little as €7.99 one way. The low-cost airline announced the sale via Twitter on Monday evening (November 12th) but keen travellers will need to move fast. The discounted tickets will only be available until midnight tonight (Tuesday, November 13th) and are only valid on flights travelling between November 20th and March 31st. It nevertheless offers a unique opportunity to take in some of Europe's most popular weekend break destinations. Cheap flights will be available to destinations including Cologne, Eindhoven, Santander and Edinburgh. Jet-setters taking off from the Emerald Isle will also be able to travel to a variety of UK destinations including Manchester, Birmingham and London on the cheap. Discount fares are also on offer to a selection of popular stag and hen do destinations including Prague, Riga, Lisbon, Budapest and Bratislava. A selection of destinations across Spain, France and Germany will also be up for grabs while there's even tickets going cheap to Marrakesh in Morocco.  Discount tickets will be on offer for Ryanair flights departing from Dublin, Shannon, Knock, Cork, and Kerry. More info on prices and dates can be accessed on the Ryanair website . But with less than 24 hours to go until the sale closes, holidaymakers will need to plan their holidays quick and move fast to get the best prices. Anyone travelling with Ryanair had best heed the airline's new rules regarding luggage. Under the Irish budget airline's new rules, non-priority customers are only allowed to take one "small personal bag" - such as a handbag or laptop case - into the cabin, so long as it fits under the seat in front. Passengers who want to bring a bigger bag weighing 10kg or more on board now have to pay an additional charge or fork out on Priority Boarding status. See More: Ryanair, Ryanair Sale One moment please... WATCH: Irish priest accidentally plays rap music during Mass livestream, but handles it brilliantly By: Harry Brent The incredible true story of the Ronald Reagan Irish Pub By: Jack Beresford This gritty Irish crime drama film has a 100% rating on Rotten Tomatoes and is on Netflix now By: Jack Beresford 7 inspiring women from Irish history you should know about By: Jack Beresford Piers Morgan does not believe Meghan’s claims that Harry was asked about Archie’s skin colour By: Jack Beresford Prince Harry 'has huge compassion' for brother William who is 'trapped' in the royal family By: Rachael O'Connor Meghan Markle reveals she was suicidal and on the verge of self-harming in groundbreaking Oprah interview By: Rachael O'Connor Irish pubs taking advantage of legal loophole to sell takeaway pints despite government warning By: Jack Beresford Meghan Markle says there were ‘concerns about how dark’ their son Archie might be By: Jack Beresford Related Controversial Ryanair advert banned after 'irresponsibly' encouraging people to book summer holidays By: Harry Brent -  1 month ago 'They're trying to terrify the population': Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary accuses NPHET of scaremongering By: Harry Brent -  1 month ago Irish people will be allowed to have summer holidays from July, predicts Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary By: Harry Brent -  1 month ago Latest Driver clocked going over twice the speed limit tells Gardai he was ‘in a rush for a Big Mac’ By: Jack Beresford -  14 hours ago Rangers crowned Scottish Premiership Champions ending Celtic's hopes of 10 titles in a row By: Jack Beresford -  14 hours ago Van Morrison slams lockdown, Facebook and lack of independent thinking on new album By: Jack Beresford -  18 hours ago Conor McGregor raises huge sum for Dublin school for visually impaired children By: Jack Beresford -  20 hours ago President Micheal D Higgins signs mandatory 14-day quarantine legislation into law By: Jack Beresford -  20 hours ago The Irish Post is the biggest selling national newspaper to the Irish in Britain. The Irish Post delivers all the latest Irish news to our online audience around the globe. COPYRIGHT © 2021. All rights reserved. Developed by Square1