 German investigators rule out sabotage on Merkel’s plane after it was forced to abandon flight to G20 and carry out emergency landing By Khaleda Rahman and Tim Stickings For Mailonline and Afp Published: 20:37 GMT, 29 November 2018 | Updated: 11:34 GMT, 30 November 2018  1k View comments  German investigators have ruled out sabotage on Chancellor Angela Merkel's plane after her flight to the G20 summit in Argentina had to make a dramatic emergency landing last night. The Airbus A340 government plane was forced to turn back shortly after taking off from Berlin on Thursday after its entire communications system broke down. The accident forced the crew to turn around over the Netherlands and land in Cologne using an on-board satellite phone to speak to air traffic control. Authorities had initially investigated whether a incident had a 'criminal background' but the air force said today there was no foul play. The Chancellor is now back in the air on a commercial Iberia flight to Buenos Aires after a military jet took her as far as Madrid, but she will miss the start of the summit.  The mid-air drama was so 'dicey' that Defence Minister Ursula von der Leyen had to be informed, and spent several hours trying to arrange a replacement plane, Der Spiegel reported. Scroll down for video People gather around German Chancellor's Airbus 'Konrad Adenauer' on on the tarmac of Cologne's airport after an emergency landing The Chancellor's office said in a statement that 'following a technical problem, the official plane landed safely in Cologne.' Today the air force said it was caused by the failure of an electric distribution box. The German leader stayed the night in a hotel in Bonn, the former West German capital, where she paid tribute to the crew after what she called a 'serious disruption'. A backup plane was reportedly available in Berlin but the crew decided it was too risky to travel all the way back across Germany with a broken communications system. The plane apparently faced further problems when it landed, as it was carrying so much fuel for the long flight that the brakes overheated, forcing the fire brigade to come out. RELATED ARTICLES Share this article The aircraft had to come down on a short runway as part of the airport was under renovation, it was reported. Security sources told the Rheinische Post that investigations would consider the possibility of sabotage. But an air force spokesman said on Friday that there was 'absolutely no indication of a criminal act.' Merkel and German Finance Minister Olaf Scholz resumed their travel to Buenos Aires early on Friday after just three hours' sleep. The Chancellor flew to Madrid on a military plane on Friday morning and boarded a scheduled flight from there to Buenos Aires with a slimmed-down entourage, ARD reported. A fire engine is seen near German Chancellor Angela Merkel's plane after it made an emergency landing in Cologne due to a technical problem Luggage stands in front of the Chancellor's Airbus 'Konrad Adenauer' in Cologne on Thursday Instead of flying her usual Airbus jet with bedroom suite, secure communications and an anti-missile system, the Chancellor is flying with Spanish airline Iberia. Her husband Joachim Sauer opted to skip the event. However the 15-hour flight time means Merkel will arrive after world leaders start their discussions. She had been due to speak with U.S. President Donald Trump on Friday but will now not arrive until the evening. The captain on last night's flight told passengers aboard the plane he decided to switch aircraft at the Cologne-Bonn airport in northwestern Germany after the 'malfunction of several electronic systems.' He said there had been no security risk. Merkel and other passengers initially remained on board the aircraft, called 'Konrad Adenauer', as mechanics inspected its brakes and several fire engines waited nearby. No details were immediately available about the cause of the technical issues. The flight had to turn around and land at Cologne Airport, Germany, due to electronic system failure about an hour after take off The German military blog Augengeradeaus reported that the plane's transponder was transmitting the code 7600 which refers to a radio malfunction. The delay will complicate Merkel's schedule at meeting where the G20 members already expect to face very difficult negotiations on myriad issues. Scholz was grounded on the same A340 aircraft last month after rats had chewed through cables of the Konrad Adenauer, disabling the aircraft for days. In June, problems with the hydraulics system on the same plane forced President Frank-Walter Steinmeier to take an alternative aircraft to Minsk. And in 2015, technical problems with the Konrad Adenauer forced Merkel and five ministers to make a flight to India on a A310 military troop transporter. The government aircraft was carrying Angela Merkel (above, file photo) and the German delegation to Buenos Aires The plane turned around over the Netherlands about an hour into the flight before landing in Cologne Share or comment on this article: Angela Merkel's plane makes emergency landing in Germany Most watched News videos More top stories DON'T MISS more don'T MISS Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group