 Smart meter installations suffer sharpest drop yet as 'people refuse to have them in their homes' Follow the author of this article Follow the topics within this article S mart meter installations have had their steepest drop yet over the past three months, official data shows, amid suggestions that homeowners are refusing to have them installed. The number of smart meters being installed in homes declined by 10 per cent over the past quarter, after falling continuously for the past nine months, data from the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy showed. Industry sources said this was because households are refusing smart meters over fears they may effectively trap them in overpriced energy deals, as they will lose their smart function if they switch. They also said technical difficulties and a short supply of new-style meters were factors behind the fall. Peter Earl, head of energy at comparethemarket.com , said: “After all the flak about the issues surrounding smart meters, a 10 per cent drop in installations over the last quarter is another massive headwind for the rollout programme. T he repeated delay of the new smart meter system – SMETS2 – tells you all you need to know about this troubled initiative. Until the second generation of smart meters is being rolled out nationwide by all suppliers, so that people’s smart meters will continue to operate having switched supplier, we could not confidently recommend them to our customers.” L ast night price comparison site Comparethemarket.com, said for the first time that it would not recommend smart meters to its customers until new style meters become available. E xperts said the slow down meant the rollout would fall behind its target of offering every home a smart meter by 2020. Consumer experts have previously claimed that energy suppliers need to install the devices three times faster than current rates to meet the deadline. It comes after spending watchdogs warned that the Government's smart meter roll out is in chaos and could end up costing every British household £100 more than first expected. Multiple failings including delays and technical problems are threatening to add nearly £3bn, or around a quarter, to the cost of the project, according to the National Audit Office study. A spokesman at BEIS declined to comment on the reasons for the decline in installations. Related Topics Follow The Telegraph Follow The Telegraph News latest Comment: SNP's poll ratings have tanked - and about time too Live Coronavirus latest news: Facemasks in lessons not compulsory due to pupil anxiety, says minister Live Travel news latest: 'Exit permit' for travellers comes into force today Live Harry and Meghan's Oprah interview: Pressure on Buckingham Palace to investigate racism allegations Live Politics latest news: David Frost 'playing games around Brexit', claims former mandarin Myanmar's military occupy hospitals as trade unions call for a general strike Comment: Harry and Meghan have well and truly trashed the Royal Family's reputation in America Holi Festival 2021: how the thwarting of a Hindu demon king led to the colourful celebration How the Spring Equinox marks the changing seasons St Patrick's Day 2021: shamrocks, snakes and how a British slave became Ireland's patron saint Watch: 'The interview can't be undone': Why there's no way back for Meghan, Harry and the Royal family Oprah with Meghan and Harry interview review: Sussexes deliver enough bombshells to sink a flotilla Forget hiding behind the sofa, the Royal family needed a bullet-proof vest as Harry and Meghan let rip Harry and Meghan's Oprah interview bombshells: They accuse Royal family of racism, reveal Duchess had suicidal thoughts and say Kate made Meghan cry Key quotes: Meghan and Harry on mental health, family relations and Archie's skin tone 'Kate made me cry': Duchess of Sussex claims it was the Duchess of Cambridge who upset her in row over bridesmaids dresses Harry and Meghan got married in secret three days before their fairytale public wedding Duchess of Sussex reveals she contemplated suicide when pregnant due to 'stress' and 'isolation' 'It's a girl': Harry and Meghan reveal gender of second child in Oprah Winfrey interview Harry and Meghan announce they are expecting a baby girl - latest news on due date and royal name odds Princess Diana foresaw Prince Harry's departure from Royal family, Duke claims We've noticed you're adblocking. We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism. We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future. Thank you for your support. Need help? Visit our adblocking instructions page.