 DWP: Protests against Universal Credit in Middlesbrough and Redcar as claimants 'pushed into debt' A new survey by Unite the Union shows three quarters of claimants are being pushed into debt, with many set for a miserable Christmas Latest Teesside headlines straight to your inbox A new survey shows three quarters of Universal Credit claimants face a miserable Christmas and have been pushed into debt. Unite the Union has published a survey of more than 1,100 people who have moved onto the new benefit, which shows many have been forced to use foodbanks to survive, and have resorted to borrowing money from friends and family. The union has organised a national day of action on Saturday, with protests being held across the North-east. Demonstrators will meet outside Debenhams in Middlesbrough and at the Redcar clock at 10.30am. During six weeks in October and November, 1,141 people responded to Unite's survey and the union said the findings make grim reading. Read More Related Articles A number of issues were identified, including two-thirds of respondents who said they had struggled to afford housing costs since moving onto the new benefit, which replaces six working age benefits. Respondents said they were worried about rent arrears and the fear of eviction, while many reported the problems of monthly budgeting on a low income. Disabled people and those who are sick reported a huge drop in income as a result of moving on to UC, the survey said. The vast majority of those surveyed (82%) have a negative view of Universal Credit and a significant number had problems either claiming the benefit online, or maintaining their claim through an online journal. Unite is using the evidence collected from the survey to lobby politicians and is calling for a stop to the controversial new UC system. Read More Related Articles Regional campaigner Ryan Case said: "Universal Credit is causing misery and suffering as the survey results clearly show. Despite knowing this, the government is still intent on ploughing ahead regardless, while claimants are descending into debt, relying on food banks and getting into rent arrears and in some cases being evicted from their homes. "Evidence from voluntary and community organisations as well as unions and local authorities seems to be ignored as the government presses on with the implementation of Universal Credit. "Access to the benefit has been devised for the benefit of administrators not the recipients of Universal Credit. The damage done by forcing people into debt, far from helping people into work, as the government claims, is driving people away from the job market as spiralling debt impacts on people’s mental and physical wellbeing. "As we head into winter, many claimants cannot afford warm clothing for themselves or their children and don’t have enough money to heat their homes. It will be a very bleak Christmas for thousands of families who are being abandoned by this government." Read More Related Articles Universal Credit has now been rolled out at every job centre in Teesside. Claimants in Stockton were moved onto the benefit in summer, while those in Middlesbrough moved over last month. The full rollout was completed in Redcar and Cleveland on Wednesday. Follow us Follow us