 Tomas Salles FXStreet Follow Following Top 3 Price Prediction Bitcoin, Ethereum, Ripple: Storms on the horizon, the market has to choose The market may see significant increases in volatility. The BTC/USD reaches key levels and will decide if the falls have come to an end. The XRP/USD is lagging and may suffer if sales increase.  It dawns in Europe this Friday with price falls among the main actors of the Crypto board. Early in the Asian session, the BTC/USD was still green but is rapidly losing momentum. In the past few hours, Bitcoin has taken advantage over its rivals thanks to a short-term technical structure that proved to be very favorable. But on the daily chart, the situation is different. We have reached a crucial moment, with the indicators in a bullish cross situation that will almost certainly be rejected in this first attempt. It will be an excellent opportunity to see the level of intensity of the bears and bulls. In this one-day time range, the BTC/USD is at a more advanced stage of development than the ETH/USD, which is also more advanced than the XRP/USD . This scenario has a derivative that could lead to new annual lows. If it occurs, it should be a shortlived but with a strong intensity terminal movement. Do you want to know more about my technical setup?  BTC/USD  Daily Chart The BTC/USD in the daily range leaves us a Doji in yesterday's session that opens the door to a relatively sharp downward retracement. If you end up drawing the figure back to the target, it is below the $4,000 price level once again. The answer will arrive between the weekend and the first days of next week. The BTC/USD is currently trading at $4,154 after two failed attempts to breach the $4.400 level. Below the current price, the first support is at $3,924 (price congestion support). This is the level to watch. A lower close will bring the BTC/USD to new annual lows that would shake the market. The second support level is $3,466 (relative minimum). The third level of support is at $3,290 (price congestion support). Above the current price, the first resistance is at $4,400 (price congestion resistance). The BTC/USD has stopped at this price level in the past two days. A higher close would serve as a sound bullish signal. The second resistance level is at $4,950 (price congestion resistance). The third resistance level is at $5,350 , a level where the EMA50, a price congestion resistance and the basis of a long-term bearish channel converge). A challenging level to overcome.   The MACD in the daily range shows us how the fast average is about to cross the bullish signal line. The statistics play against it, and the strange thing would be that the crossing would take place without a bearish rejection. The DMI in the daily range shows us how the Bulls have reacted strongly to the last upside move. At the same time, the Bears no longer seem to rely on much lower price levels and reduce their positions as well. Neither side of the market has definite ideas of where the Crypto market is going in the next few days. XRP/USD Daily Chart  The XRP/USD is currently trading at the $0.377 price level. For the XRP/USD, the loss of the $0.40 level has often felt bad. After a week of being the bullish leader, it had a lot of trouble keeping up with Bitcoin . Technically it is in a less developed stage of the scenario, and if it doesn't get a last-minute bullish move, the XRP/USD will suffer a lot if the market moves down actively. Below the current price, the first support is at $0.369 (price congestion support). The second support level is at $0.346 (price congestion support). The XRP/USD should not lose this level at the close of the session, because it would return it to the August lows zone and new lows could be seen. The third support level, already around the lows, is $0.320 (price congestion support). Above the current price, the first resistance is at $0.406 (weekly high). The second resistance is at $0.414 (price congestion resistance). If the XRP/USD achieves a close above the $0.40 level, it would probably receive significant bullish momentum. The third resistance level is at $0.429 (SMA100 and price congestion resistance). The MACD in the daily range shows a bearish profile and is still far from a possible change of direction. If the market moves lower the XRP/USD will do so much stronger than the BTC/USD. The DMI in the daily range shows how the Bulls have relied on the recent rally and have reacted to the rally. On the other hand, the Bears lose strength and move slightly below the ADX line, a pattern before a change in price direction in the medium term. ETH/USD Daily Chart  The ETH/USD is currently trading at the price level of $117.44 . In the last two days, it has tried to break above the $120 level unsuccessfully. Today it is receding following the general trend of the market. Below the current price, the first support is at the $100 price level (relative minimum). If the ETH/USD loses this level, the drop can be very intense. The second support level is at $95 (price congestion support). The third level of support is at $80 (price congestion support). Above the current price, the first resistance is at the $120 level (price congestion resistance). Above this level, the ETH/USD is presented with a large free space up to the $155 level (price congestion resistance). From this level, another big jump to the $172 price level (EMA50 and price congestion resistance). The MACD in the daily range shows a profile before a bullish cross. The resolution will depend a lot on what the BTC/USD does in the next few hours. The DMI in the daily range follows the general tone and shows the Bulls reacting upwards as the Bears retreat and already move clearly below the ADX line. A recurring re-test pattern of the ADX line may support a downward movement).  Get 24/7 Crypto updates in our social media channels: Give us a follow at @FXSCrypto and our FXStreet Crypto Trading Telegram channel  Information on these pages contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Markets and instruments profiled on this page are for informational purposes only and should not in any way come across as a recommendation to buy or sell in these assets. You should do your own thorough research before making any investment decisions. FXStreet does not in any way guarantee that this information is free from mistakes, errors, or material misstatements. It also does not guarantee that this information is of a timely nature. Investing in Open Markets involves a great deal of risk, including the loss of all or a portion of your investment, as well as emotional distress. All risks, losses and costs associated with investing, including total loss of principal, are your responsibility. The views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the official policy or position of FXStreet nor its advertisers. Latest Crypto News Latest Crypto News & Analysis Editors’ Picks IRS sends warning to cryptocurrency holders: report taxes or go to jail Tax evasion in the virtual currency industry has continued to cause headaches for tax collectors globally. The situation is worrying in the United States, leading to the latest collaboration between the Internal Revenue Service (RSI) and the Director of Fraud Enforcement, Damon Rowe. XLM Price Forecast: Stellar primed for a 30% breakout Stellar price moves closer to a breakout from a symmetrical triangle pattern. A 30% upswing in XLM can be expected after a decisive close above the $0.43 level. The Bollinger bands show that a close outside of the no-trade zone ranging from $0.38 to $0.43 will improve XLM’s volatility. Uniswap v3 and Ethereum EIP 1559 have kickstarted UNI price rally to $52 Uniswap v3 release has caused FOMO among market participants. As a result, UNI price soared more than 40% in the last few days. Ethereum’s EIP-1559 could also play a pivotal role in Uniswap’s growth. Binance's MANTRA DAO listing sparks massive criticism due to fraudulent background Binance has come under heavy scrutiny from members of the cryptocurrency community for supporting MANTRA DAO. The token is said to have a fraudulent background stemming from its founders and team. BEST CRYPTO BROKERS/EXCHANGES Bitcoin Weekly Forecast: BTC journey to $100,000 might be easier than expected This past week has been extremely beneficial for Bitcoin which jumped by 30% since Monday 8. Several positive announcements, especially Tesla purchasing $1.5 billion worth of the digital asset propelled the flagship cryptocurrency to new highs. BTC ETH XRP Crypto partners in your location Note: All information on this page is subject to change. The use of this website constitutes acceptance of our user agreement. Please read our privacy policy and legal disclaimer. Trading foreign exchange on margin carries a high level of risk and may not be suitable for all investors. The high degree of leverage can work against you as well as for you. Before deciding to trade foreign exchange you should carefully consider your investment objectives, level of experience and risk appetite. The possibility exists that you could sustain a loss of some or all of your initial investment and therefore you should not invest money that you cannot afford to lose. You should be aware of all the risks associated with foreign exchange trading and seek advice from an independent financial advisor if you have any doubts. Opinions expressed at FXStreet are those of the individual authors and do not necessarily represent the opinion of FXStreet or its management. FXStreet has not verified the accuracy or basis-in-fact of any claim or statement made by any independent author: errors and Omissions may occur.Any opinions, news, research, analyses, prices or other information contained on this website, by FXStreet, its employees, partners or contributors, is provided as general market commentary and does not constitute investment advice. FXStreet will not accept liability for any loss or damage, including without limitation to, any loss of profit, which may arise directly or indirectly from use of or reliance on such information.