Earth will look very different in 100 million years
Earth will transform over the next 100 million years and another supercontinent will form, making driving to America a real possibility
Earth won't look like this in 100 million years (Image: NASA)

The Earth is under constant change and around 310 million years ago the planet's land mass was connected as a supercontinent called Pangea claims one theory.

Pangea broke up around 180 million years ago, but new projections suggest it could be making a comeback in the next 100 million years.

One theory is that a new supercontinent called Novopangea will form. This will be caused by the Atlantic widening and the Pacific shrinking.

Novopangea is the most likely eventual outcome (Image: The Conversation)
The Americas will collide with Antarctica and Africa will merge into an already combined Eurasia. The result will be one landmass of formerly separate continents.

Crucially the spiders from Australia will be able to reach the UK, if the UK hasn't been crushed into dust.

Other possibilities included a Pangea Ultima, which would see a central sea form. Antarctica will split into two and the Americas will now border Africa.

Pangea Ultima would see a different arrangement with a central ocean (Image: The Conversation)
Eurasia will see India and China directly to its south and Australia will be located to the south of the newly merged India and China.

The spiders will still be able to get to the UK though.

A further prediction suggests something called Amasia. With tectonic plates moving north we may see a gathering of continents towards where the Arctic currently is.

Amasia would see the continents drift north, except Antarctica, which isn't invited (Image: The Conversation)
Antarctica will remain in its current position though, presumably providing a safe haven for arachnophobes.

It's thought that the first option, the Novopangea is the most likely. It's not clear what the Earth's climate will be like in 100 million years, and humanity's fate will likely depend on other factors.