 Jaguar Land Rover job losses as Solihull gears-up for Slovakia switch The Coventry car maker has announced “changes to its production schedule” Never miss another story from Coventry and Warwickshire by subscribing to our free email updates Staff at Jaguar Land Rover’s Lode Lane plant face huge changes as the company begins the countdown to switching production of its Discovery model from Solihull to Slovakia. The Coventry car maker has announced “changes to its production schedule” with workers consulted today on what that will mean. Hundreds of agency staff at Solihull will lose their jobs, while some permanent staff working on the Discovery model will be given the option of voluntary redundancy. The changes are part of a programme to move Discovery production to the car maker’s recently-opened Slovakian factory in Nitra. The programme will also see the Solihull plant reconfigured to produce the next generation Range Rover and perhaps other models too, as the firm moves towards an electric future. A spokesman for Jaguar Land Rover told CoventryLive the reduction in the number of agency workers was “the balance” of a planned reduction of 1,000 announced in the spring but that there would be several hundred additional agency jobs going - due to slowing global sales. The spokesman did not confirm further details regarding voluntary redundancy but said such a “voluntary leavers programme” was customary when production of a vehicle ends, as was the case when Defender production ceased. Meanwhile DHL, which supplies agency staff across Jaguar Land Rover’s UK operations, announced it would be reducing staffing levels at the car maker’s Halewood site on Merseyside by 180 people in the run-up to Christmas. That comes just days after Jaguar Land Rover launched its all-new Evoque, which will be built at Halewood. DHL and Jaguar Land Rover said the staffing reductions were “pre-planned” and are happening because a particularly busy period is coming to an end. The company also revealed plans to extend the Christmas shutdown at its engine plant near Wolverhampton. The state-of-the-art engine factory on the i54 Business Park builds petrol and diesel four-cylinder Ingenium engines for a range of Jaguar and Land Rover models. The company confirmed the Christmas shutdown will now last three weeks - instead of just one week - for a third of the staff there. Jaguar Land Rover JLR statement Regarding the Solihull changes around plans to shift Discovery production to Slovakia and extended engine plant shutdown, a spokesman for the car maker said: “Jaguar Land Rover is continuing to invest heavily in its UK manufacturing operations with significant investment recently committed to Halewood for production of the new Range Rover Evoque and Solihull which will build the next generation of Range Rover. “The external environment remains challenging and the company is taking decisive actions to achieve the necessary operational efficiencies to safeguard long-term success. “To deliver a growing range of electrified cars for our customers we are making tough decisions, but the transformation of the business relies on this. “Today, we have confirmed that Solihull will make some changes to its production schedule to reflect fluctuating demand globally and forthcoming infrastructure works resulting from the cessation of Discovery which will move, as already confirmed, to Slovakia early in the new year. “Customer orders will not be impacted by any of these changes. “In response to adjustments in vehicle production schedules, the EMC (engine manufacturing centre) will take a temporary pause in production in its machine and assembly halls. “Maintenance and salaried staff will continue as normal and those impacted continue to receive full pay for this period.” Watch: This is the new Range Rover Evoque The trades union Unite said it would be pressing Jaguar Land Rover to safeguard as many jobs as possible in the wake of the announcement regarding changes to the Solihull plant production schedule. Unite said the plans were related to “fluctuating demand due to difficult market conditions, political uncertainty and the UK Government’s confusion over diesel”. What Unite said Unite national officer Des Quinn said: “Unite’s priority during this planned transition in production and changes to shifts is to safeguard as many jobs as possible. “In the long-term the move of Discovery production to Slovakia will bring on stream new models at Solihull and secure the future of the plant for years to come. “This investment in new models is a long-term commitment that recognises the skills of a workforce that has worked hard to make Jaguar Land Rover a global success story. “In the short-term however, Jaguar Land Rover workers and many in the supply chain will have questions about what the transition to the new production and shift changes means for their jobs. Unite will be giving our members maximum support through this time. “Unite will continue to work with Jaguar Land Rover and companies in the supply chain to ensure that the transition in production is as painless as possible and that measures to mitigate against job losses are in place to ensure jobs and skills are retained for the future.” Solihull has already seen an extended shutdown around the autumn half-term holiday. Ordinarily the plant would close for a week but this year the shutdown lasted a fortnight. Sales figures Jaguar Land Rover recently announced sales had fallen by 13.2 per cent to 129,887 vehicles for the three months to September 30. The company also reported revenues of £5.6billon and a pre-tax loss of £90million for the same period. October sales were down 4.6 per cent compared to the same period in 2017. The Lode Lane plant currently produces the Land Rover Discovery, Range Rover Sport, Range Rover Velar, Range Rover and Jaguar F-Pace models.  Keep in touch with CoventryLive Visit our Facebook pages for Coventry and Nuneaton or visit our Twitter pages for Coventry and Nuneaton Watch our videos on YouTube and see our photos on Instagram Find old stories in our online Archives and search for jobs, motors and property, or place an advert or family notice here You can also download our all-new app. Click here for iPhone and here for Android Follow us Follow us