 British and German concerns mount over China's Huawei Follow the author of this article Follow the topics within this article B ritain's cyber-security agency has warned that it still has “technical concerns” over Huawei following growing US calls for its allies to block the controversial Chinese telecoms giant from rolling out its network technology, amid espionage fears. The National Cyber Security Centre, the UK’s cyber defence agency and part of GCHQ, responded after New Zealand became the latest country to block Huawei from bidding for its next generation 5G telecom network. An NCSC spokesman said it “has concerns around a range of technical issues and has set out improvements the company must make”. The UK has continued to work with Huawei even as US security agencies condemned the Chinese company as a potential national security risk. Huawei has repeatedly denied the allegations, which have been exacerbated by its founder's close links to the Chinese military. The Departure of Digital Culture Media and Sport (DCMS) is undertaking a review of the future of UK networks, expected to be completed in the spring. British and German security officials have been lobbied over the issue by US security officials who have visited Europe to urge allied nations to secure their networks and supply chains as the mass roll-out of 5G technology begins. Officials told the Financial Times that US envoys have urged the UK to secure their networks as the US continues to push for safeguards against Huawei. T he UK is preparing for a series of 5G auctions that will lead to the deployment of new superfast mobile services. Huawei is expected to be a major player and is seen as cheaper than other providers. US security officials have been pushing their European counterparts to exercise restraint on Huawei. “The US influence on this has really intensified recently,” a German official told the newspaper. I n July, an annual report from the oversight board set up to monitor Huawei's telecoms equipment in the UK said there were some "critical shortfalls" in some components. The UK's National Cyber Security Centre oversees a special division with staff from Huawei to monitor its hardware in the UK, known as "The Cell", as well as an official oversight board chaired by Ciaran Martin, chief executive of the NCSC. The report said there had been "repeated discovery of critical shortfalls... in the Huawei engineering practices and processes that will cause long term increased risk in the UK". I n the US, the FBI and other security services have repeatedly raised concerns about Huawei's links to Beijing. This week, New Zealand said it was blocking Huawei's involvement in its own fifth-generation IT infrastructure, although on Thursday ministers said this was more due to technical concerns than spying fears. New Zealand security minister Andrew Little said there had been "no representations" from the US to block Huawei. R obert Pritchard, a former Government cyber security adviser, said the UK appeared to be stepping up the assurances it wanted from Huawei. "Given how integral Huawei kit is currently to UK networks it seems unlikely we’ll see any sort of outright ban," he said, "however it may be that there will be restrictions on use on the new 5G networks. The UK has been pragmatic in this space." A Huawei spokesman said the oversight board's report in July “identified some areas for improvement in our engineering processes. We are grateful for this feedback and committed to addressing these issues. Cyber security remains Huawei's top priority, and we will continue to actively improve our engineering processes and risk management systems.” Related Topics Follow The Telegraph Follow The Telegraph Technology latest Live Starling Bank valued at £1.1bn after largest ever funding round - live updates Deliveroo reports heavy losses of£224m despite lockdown growth British Summer Time 2021: When do the clocks change? VPN downloads hit record levels as Britons scramble to watch Meghan and Harry Monzo backer raises £45m to fund new wave of start-ups Behind the scenes of Britain’s film studio scramble The brains behind Britain’s quantum leap Comment: It may be worth paying, but online privacy comes at a price Wall Street blank cheque craze may be about to crash Jeff Bezos's ex-wife MacKenzie Scott marries Seattle school science teacher How A-listers are driving the hugely speculative investment craze of Spacs Biden fires starting gun on mission to liberate American tech supply chain from China’s grip Carlyle and Epic snap up visual effects company powering Billie Eilish shows Chrome changes could put users at risk as trackers evade privacy crackdown Apple to film at Aylesbury studios after partner MBS strikes deal for logistics site Deliveroo offers customers £50m IPO slice Comment: UK investors must develop an appetite for risk-taking Streaming platform Digital Theatre gears up for London float Critics warn of bubble as celebrities cash in on art that doesn't exist China hack hits 'at least 30,000' US Microsoft customers ‘Soon it will be hard to justify buying a petrol car’, says ChargePoint boss We've noticed you're adblocking. We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism. We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future. Thank you for your support. Need help? Visit our adblocking instructions page.