 Apple removes over 700 apps from Chinese App Store Follow the author of this article Follow the topics within this article A pple has removed hundreds of iPhone apps from its App Store in China, in the company’s latest crackdown in one of its biggest markets. More than 700 apps have been removed from the Chinese App Store in recent days, according to local reports . They include apps developed by Sogou, a Chinese alternative to Google, and Pinduodo, an online retail app. The apps have been banned for flouting App Store rules that prohibit companies from installing software updates on their apps without Apple’s permission, it is understood. Apple requires that app updates, such as new features or security improvements, are downloaded via the App Store itself, so that the company can approve them. The company warned developers of the new rule two years ago , but appears to have removed the Chinese apps this week. It marks the latest in an attempt by Apple to enforce greater control over the Chinese App Store, which is believed to be the company’s biggest source of app revenue. In August, the company deleted thousands of apps , including gambling apps, for breaking its rules. Chinese state media has previously demanded that Apple control the App Store in China more effectively . The service is the only foreign app store available in the country, where Google’s Play Store is banned. O ther apps, such as those for Western news organisations and virtual private networks, which allow citizens to skirt China’s internet controls, have also been removed from the Chinese App Store in recent years. Analysts from Macquarie claim that the country made up almost 40pc of global app spending last year. Related Topics Follow The Telegraph Follow The Telegraph Technology latest Deliveroo reports heavy losses of£224m despite lockdown growth Live Starling Bank valued at £1.1bn after largest ever funding round - live updates British Summer Time 2021: When do the clocks change? VPN downloads hit record levels as Britons scramble to watch Meghan and Harry Comment: It may be worth paying, but online privacy comes at a price Monzo backer raises £45m to fund new wave of start-ups Behind the scenes of Britain’s film studio scramble The brains behind Britain’s quantum leap Wall Street blank cheque craze may be about to crash Jeff Bezos's ex-wife MacKenzie Scott marries Seattle school science teacher How A-listers are driving the hugely speculative investment craze of Spacs Biden fires starting gun on mission to liberate American tech supply chain from China’s grip Carlyle and Epic snap up visual effects company powering Billie Eilish shows Chrome changes could put users at risk as trackers evade privacy crackdown Apple to film at Aylesbury studios after partner MBS strikes deal for logistics site Deliveroo offers customers £50m IPO slice Comment: UK investors must develop an appetite for risk-taking Streaming platform Digital Theatre gears up for London float Critics warn of bubble as celebrities cash in on art that doesn't exist China hack hits 'at least 30,000' US Microsoft customers ‘Soon it will be hard to justify buying a petrol car’, says ChargePoint boss We've noticed you're adblocking. We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism. We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future. Thank you for your support. Need help? Visit our adblocking instructions page.