 2.4-million-year-old tools found in Algeria could upend human origin story Follow the author of this article Follow the topics within this article A rchaeologists in Algeria have discovered stone tools and cut animal bones that may be up to 2.4 million years old, bringing into question East Africa's title as the cradle of humanity, according to research published Thursday in the journal Science. The artifacts - more ancient than those discovered in the region until now - were found in Setif, some 200 miles (300 kilometres) east of Algiers, by a team of international researchers, including Algerians. The tools closely resemble those called Oldowan, found until now mainly in East Africa. The tools were unearthed near dozens of fossilised animal bones which contained cut marks, as if relics of prehistoric butchers. The bones came from animals including the ancestors of crocodiles, elephants and hippopotamuses. "East Africa is widely considered to be the birthplace of stone tool use by our ancient hominid ancestors - the earliest examples of which date as far back as about 2.6 million years ago," said the report in Science. "The new findings make Ain Boucherit the oldest site in northern Africa with in situ evidence of hominin meat use with associated stone tools and they suggest that other similarly early sites could be found outside of the Eastern Africa Rift." O ne hypothesis is that early ancestors of modern day humans quickly carried stone tools with them out of East Africa and into other regions of the continent. A nother is a "multiple origin scenario," in which early hominids made and used tools in both East and North Africa. "The site of Ain Lahnech is the second oldest in the world after Gona in Ethiopia, which goes back to 2.6 million years ago and is widely considered the cradle of humanity," lead author Mohamed Sahouni told AFP. The discoveries were made in two layers - one dating to 2.4 million years ago and the second dating to 1.9 million years old. The findings suggest that the ancestors of modern people were present in north Africa at least 600,000 years earlier than scientists thought. Until now, the oldest known tools from northern Africa were 1.8 million years old, and were found at a nearby site. No humans remains were found. Therefore, scientists don't know what species of hominids were at the site, or what ancient cousin of homo sapiens (who appeared much later), used these tools. The dig was undertaken by experts from research institutions in Spain, Algeria, Australia and France. "Now that Ain Boucherit has yielded Oldowan archeology estimated to 2.4 million years ago, Northern Africa and the Sahara may be a repository of further archaeological materials," the study said. "Based on the potential of Ain Boucherit and the adjacent sedimentary basins, we suggest that hominin fossils and Oldowan artifacts as old as those documented in East Africa could be discovered in North Africa as well." Related Topics Follow The Telegraph Follow The Telegraph News latest Comment: SNP's poll ratings have tanked - and about time too Live Coronavirus latest news: Facemasks in lessons not compulsory due to pupil anxiety, says minister Live Travel news latest: 'Exit permit' for travellers comes into force today Live Harry and Meghan's Oprah interview: Pressure on Buckingham Palace to investigate racism allegations Live Politics latest news: David Frost 'playing games around Brexit', claims former mandarin Myanmar's military occupy hospitals as trade unions call for a general strike Comment: Harry and Meghan have well and truly trashed the Royal Family's reputation in America Holi Festival 2021: how the thwarting of a Hindu demon king led to the colourful celebration How the Spring Equinox marks the changing seasons St Patrick's Day 2021: shamrocks, snakes and how a British slave became Ireland's patron saint Watch: 'The interview can't be undone': Why there's no way back for Meghan, Harry and the Royal family Oprah with Meghan and Harry interview review: Sussexes deliver enough bombshells to sink a flotilla Forget hiding behind the sofa, the Royal family needed a bullet-proof vest as Harry and Meghan let rip Harry and Meghan's Oprah interview bombshells: They accuse Royal family of racism, reveal Duchess had suicidal thoughts and say Kate made Meghan cry Key quotes: Meghan and Harry on mental health, family relations and Archie's skin tone 'Kate made me cry': Duchess of Sussex claims it was the Duchess of Cambridge who upset her in row over bridesmaids dresses Harry and Meghan got married in secret three days before their fairytale public wedding Duchess of Sussex reveals she contemplated suicide when pregnant due to 'stress' and 'isolation' 'It's a girl': Harry and Meghan reveal gender of second child in Oprah Winfrey interview Harry and Meghan announce they are expecting a baby girl - latest news on due date and royal name odds Princess Diana foresaw Prince Harry's departure from Royal family, Duke claims We've noticed you're adblocking. We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism. We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future. Thank you for your support. Need help? Visit our adblocking instructions page.