 Charles and Camilla take to the dance floor with the President and First Lady of Ghana Follow the author of this article Follow the topics within this article I n 1961, in a scene now made famous by The Crown, the Queen made history by dancing with the President of Ghana in a move which cemented their Commonwealth relationship in front of the watching world. Last night, her son showed off his own moves as he took to the dance floor to get down to a spot of Ghanaian “high life” music. The Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall were the stars of the dance floor as they partnered with current President Afuko-Addo and his wife Rebecca, in an evening celebrating the long ties between their countries. The Prince has previously spoken of his love of Ghanaian music,saying in a video message that he and his wife look forward to “meeting as many people as possible during our forthcoming visit and bearing in mind the very special memories I have from 40 years ago to re-experiencing the irresistible attractions of highlife and afro-beat.” The informal dance, at the end of a long state dinner at the President’s Jubilee House, garnered praise from onlookers, who expressed surprise at the Royal couple’s rhythm. In 1961, the Queen made headlines for a foxtrot with President Nkrumah at a similar farewell ball in Accra. D etermined to visit the country despite serious security issues, she had considered it essential to cement Ghana’s place in the Commonwealth and demonstrate her respect for its President. The evening also saw the Prince presented with the Companion of the Order of the Star of Ghana, the highest civilian honour the country bestows. In a speech, he said: "Now my wife and I have many new and special memories to take back with us after such a happy visit on this occasion – from the generosity of your welcome, Mr. President, and all the kind arrangements made on our behalf to the countless remarkable Ghanaians we have met, who are making a huge contribution to Ghana's growing success story. "Our hearts will be full, Mr. President, as we leave tomorrow with renewed affection for this very special country and with a sense of real pride and optimism in Ghana's increasingly vital position in the Commonwealth." Sign up for Your Royal Appointment – our weekly newsletter with everything you need to know about the Royal family. Related Topics Follow The Telegraph Follow The Telegraph News latest Live Coronavirus latest news: Facemasks in lessons not compulsory due to pupil anxiety, says minister Live Travel news latest: 'Exit permit' for travellers comes into force today Live Harry and Meghan's Oprah interview: Pressure on Buckingham Palace to investigate racism allegations Live Politics latest news: David Frost 'playing games around Brexit', claims former mandarin Myanmar's military occupy hospitals as trade unions call for a general strike Comment: Harry and Meghan have well and truly trashed the Royal Family's reputation in America Holi Festival 2021: how the thwarting of a Hindu demon king led to the colourful celebration How the Spring Equinox marks the changing seasons St Patrick's Day 2021: shamrocks, snakes and how a British slave became Ireland's patron saint Watch: 'The interview can't be undone': Why there's no way back for Meghan, Harry and the Royal family Oprah with Meghan and Harry interview review: Sussexes deliver enough bombshells to sink a flotilla Forget hiding behind the sofa, the Royal family needed a bullet-proof vest as Harry and Meghan let rip Harry and Meghan's Oprah interview bombshells: They accuse Royal family of racism, reveal Duchess had suicidal thoughts and say Kate made Meghan cry Key quotes: Meghan and Harry on mental health, family relations and Archie's skin tone 'Kate made me cry': Duchess of Sussex claims it was the Duchess of Cambridge who upset her in row over bridesmaids dresses Harry and Meghan got married in secret three days before their fairytale public wedding Duchess of Sussex reveals she contemplated suicide when pregnant due to 'stress' and 'isolation' 'It's a girl': Harry and Meghan reveal gender of second child in Oprah Winfrey interview Harry and Meghan announce they are expecting a baby girl - latest news on due date and royal name odds Princess Diana foresaw Prince Harry's departure from Royal family, Duke claims US reaction: America's fury at Royal family over Duchess of Sussex's racism accusations We've noticed you're adblocking. We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism. We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future. Thank you for your support. Need help? Visit our adblocking instructions page.