 JavaScript is disabled! Please enable JavaScript in your web browser! UBA Kenya profit after tax increases by 262 percent By Valentine Kondo | November 30th 2018 at 15:41:17 GMT +0300 UBA Kenya has recorded pretax profit rise of 262 percent to Sh52.2 million in relation to 2017’s figure of Sh14.4 million in the nine months’ period. Customer deposits rose 432 percent to Sh5.9 billion in September 2018 from SH4.2 billion in the same period 2017. Emeke Iweriebor UBA East and Southern Africa Chief Executive, observed that the bank was keen in making developmental investments well as offering appropriate banking services. “The bank will continue to make strategic investments in product development, as we endeavour to provide our customer with innovative and convenient banking solutions, further entrenching our vision to be the undisputed leading and dominant financial services institution in Africa,” said Emeke. Bank’s total assets increased to Sh15.8 billion as at September 2018 from Sh6.9 billion due to new customer subscriptions well as an increase in existing customer shares in the company. Read More 1 Opera’s Hype aims to rethink chat as it launches in Kenya 2 UBA nets Sh251m profit in Quarter 3 3 Kenyatta University inks deal with lender 4 Kenyatta University inks deal with lender In early 2018, UBA unveiled a Facebook Messenger through which customers would make their transactions well as inquiries. UBA which was launched nine years ago, also launched a WhatsApp chat platform, Leo in September this year for customers to make inquiries about the bank’s products. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! Customer deposits rose 432 percent to Sh5.9 billion in September 2018 from SH4.2 billion in the same period 2017. Emeke Iweriebor UBA East and Southern Africa Chief Executive, observed that the bank was keen in making developmental investments well as offering appropriate banking services. “The bank will continue to make strategic investments in product development, as we endeavour to provide our customer with innovative and convenient banking solutions, further entrenching our vision to be the undisputed leading and dominant financial services institution in Africa,” said Emeke. Bank’s total assets increased to Sh15.8 billion as at September 2018 from Sh6.9 billion due to new customer subscriptions well as an increase in existing customer shares in the company. Read More 1 Opera’s Hype aims to rethink chat as it launches in Kenya 2 UBA nets Sh251m profit in Quarter 3 3 Kenyatta University inks deal with lender 4 Kenyatta University inks deal with lender In early 2018, UBA unveiled a Facebook Messenger through which customers would make their transactions well as inquiries. UBA which was launched nine years ago, also launched a WhatsApp chat platform, Leo in September this year for customers to make inquiries about the bank’s products. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! Emeke Iweriebor UBA East and Southern Africa Chief Executive, observed that the bank was keen in making developmental investments well as offering appropriate banking services. “The bank will continue to make strategic investments in product development, as we endeavour to provide our customer with innovative and convenient banking solutions, further entrenching our vision to be the undisputed leading and dominant financial services institution in Africa,” said Emeke. Bank’s total assets increased to Sh15.8 billion as at September 2018 from Sh6.9 billion due to new customer subscriptions well as an increase in existing customer shares in the company. Read More 1 Opera’s Hype aims to rethink chat as it launches in Kenya 2 UBA nets Sh251m profit in Quarter 3 3 Kenyatta University inks deal with lender 4 Kenyatta University inks deal with lender In early 2018, UBA unveiled a Facebook Messenger through which customers would make their transactions well as inquiries. UBA which was launched nine years ago, also launched a WhatsApp chat platform, Leo in September this year for customers to make inquiries about the bank’s products. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! “The bank will continue to make strategic investments in product development, as we endeavour to provide our customer with innovative and convenient banking solutions, further entrenching our vision to be the undisputed leading and dominant financial services institution in Africa,” said Emeke. Bank’s total assets increased to Sh15.8 billion as at September 2018 from Sh6.9 billion due to new customer subscriptions well as an increase in existing customer shares in the company. Read More 1 Opera’s Hype aims to rethink chat as it launches in Kenya 2 UBA nets Sh251m profit in Quarter 3 3 Kenyatta University inks deal with lender 4 Kenyatta University inks deal with lender In early 2018, UBA unveiled a Facebook Messenger through which customers would make their transactions well as inquiries. UBA which was launched nine years ago, also launched a WhatsApp chat platform, Leo in September this year for customers to make inquiries about the bank’s products. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! Bank’s total assets increased to Sh15.8 billion as at September 2018 from Sh6.9 billion due to new customer subscriptions well as an increase in existing customer shares in the company. Read More 1 Opera’s Hype aims to rethink chat as it launches in Kenya 2 UBA nets Sh251m profit in Quarter 3 3 Kenyatta University inks deal with lender 4 Kenyatta University inks deal with lender In early 2018, UBA unveiled a Facebook Messenger through which customers would make their transactions well as inquiries. UBA which was launched nine years ago, also launched a WhatsApp chat platform, Leo in September this year for customers to make inquiries about the bank’s products. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! Read More In early 2018, UBA unveiled a Facebook Messenger through which customers would make their transactions well as inquiries. UBA which was launched nine years ago, also launched a WhatsApp chat platform, Leo in September this year for customers to make inquiries about the bank’s products. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! UBA which was launched nine years ago, also launched a WhatsApp chat platform, Leo in September this year for customers to make inquiries about the bank’s products. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers!   Related Topics Share this story Share your valuable feedback on your experience of the website. MOST READ Murder at the altar: When men of the cloth turn into killers Oburu says Raila could work with Ruto in 2022 Police teargas Tanga Tanga MPS at London ward by-election Majimbo Kalasinga wins Kabuchai parliamentary by-election Jubilee has been invaded but I have a plan, says Ruto Orengo: Uhuru men in a plot to sabotage Raila RELATED STORIES Kenyatta University inks deal with lender LATEST STORIES Here’s why the women you see in the news matter CHECKPOINT 4 days ago 6 days ago 8 days ago 13 days ago THE STANDARD INSIDER Kibicho: Is he Deep state or politicians’ punching bag? My deep voice is medically induced Uhuru’s night call that calmed Raila Fears of third wave as new Covid-19 infections increase steadily More stories Glovo manager Priscilla Muhiu on career and leadership Education is key to unlocking women’s leadership potential Fears of trade wars as Kenya bans maize from Tanzania, UG Controversial Lake Basin Mall piles up Sh4b debt Kenya has untapped mineral potential – report MPs agree to IMF conditions with new budget directives Take a Break  Standard Gaming Standard Gaming Standard Gaming Kindly click the button below to give us your feedback. Thank you! Get Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! Register  Login  OR Forgot Password Login  OR