 JavaScript is disabled! Please enable JavaScript in your web browser! World Bank sees Nigerian 2018 GDP growth at under 2 percent By Reuters | November 30th 2018 at 09:10:33 GMT +0300 LAGOS - The World Bank expects Nigeria’s economy to grow slightly less than 2 percent this year, largely driven by the non-oil industry and services sectors, as the approach of elections keeps foreign investors away, it said on Wednesday. Nigeria emerged from a recession last year but growth remains fragile, with the government borrowing both at home and abroad to help fund its budget. It has raised almost $9 billion from the eurobond market since 2017 to boost growth. “Nigeria’s emergence from recession remains sluggish, and sectoral growth patterns are unstable. In the second quarter of 2018, the oil sector contracted by 4.0 percent,” the bank said in a statement. GDP grew by 0.83 percent last year after shrinking by 1.58 percent in 2016, its first annual contraction in 25 years. For this year, Nigeria’s central bank is projecting growth of 1.75 percent. The World Bank said growth in the farm sector, which has been resilient in the past, had slowed to 1.2 percent under the impact of security challenges in the north. Read More 1 Sh10b refugees project in limbo as dispute erupts 2 World Bank, IMF add climate change to debt-reduction talks 3 World Bank gives Sh72m grant for water supply 4 Kenya borrows Sh27b in December pushing debt to Sh7.3trillion The World Bank said non-oil industry and services, which make up more than half of Nigeria’s economy, had been boosted by growth in construction, transport and communication technology. But it said investment in human capital, which the government has been seeking to boost, remained low compared with other countries. Nigeria is largely dependent on its oil sector for government revenues and foreign exchange, but it has been constrained by a subsidy on petrol and other deductions, the bank said, noting that foreign investment was stagnant. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! It said higher oil exports had helped current account data in the first half but non-oil revenue had come in lower than expected despite reforms to improve the economy. The World Bank expected the fiscal deficit to widen in 2018, with portfolio investors exercising caution ahead of the election, despite rising local yields. Nigeria emerged from a recession last year but growth remains fragile, with the government borrowing both at home and abroad to help fund its budget. It has raised almost $9 billion from the eurobond market since 2017 to boost growth. “Nigeria’s emergence from recession remains sluggish, and sectoral growth patterns are unstable. In the second quarter of 2018, the oil sector contracted by 4.0 percent,” the bank said in a statement. GDP grew by 0.83 percent last year after shrinking by 1.58 percent in 2016, its first annual contraction in 25 years. For this year, Nigeria’s central bank is projecting growth of 1.75 percent. The World Bank said growth in the farm sector, which has been resilient in the past, had slowed to 1.2 percent under the impact of security challenges in the north. Read More 1 Sh10b refugees project in limbo as dispute erupts 2 World Bank, IMF add climate change to debt-reduction talks 3 World Bank gives Sh72m grant for water supply 4 Kenya borrows Sh27b in December pushing debt to Sh7.3trillion The World Bank said non-oil industry and services, which make up more than half of Nigeria’s economy, had been boosted by growth in construction, transport and communication technology. But it said investment in human capital, which the government has been seeking to boost, remained low compared with other countries. Nigeria is largely dependent on its oil sector for government revenues and foreign exchange, but it has been constrained by a subsidy on petrol and other deductions, the bank said, noting that foreign investment was stagnant. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! It said higher oil exports had helped current account data in the first half but non-oil revenue had come in lower than expected despite reforms to improve the economy. The World Bank expected the fiscal deficit to widen in 2018, with portfolio investors exercising caution ahead of the election, despite rising local yields. “Nigeria’s emergence from recession remains sluggish, and sectoral growth patterns are unstable. In the second quarter of 2018, the oil sector contracted by 4.0 percent,” the bank said in a statement. GDP grew by 0.83 percent last year after shrinking by 1.58 percent in 2016, its first annual contraction in 25 years. For this year, Nigeria’s central bank is projecting growth of 1.75 percent. The World Bank said growth in the farm sector, which has been resilient in the past, had slowed to 1.2 percent under the impact of security challenges in the north. Read More 1 Sh10b refugees project in limbo as dispute erupts 2 World Bank, IMF add climate change to debt-reduction talks 3 World Bank gives Sh72m grant for water supply 4 Kenya borrows Sh27b in December pushing debt to Sh7.3trillion The World Bank said non-oil industry and services, which make up more than half of Nigeria’s economy, had been boosted by growth in construction, transport and communication technology. But it said investment in human capital, which the government has been seeking to boost, remained low compared with other countries. Nigeria is largely dependent on its oil sector for government revenues and foreign exchange, but it has been constrained by a subsidy on petrol and other deductions, the bank said, noting that foreign investment was stagnant. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! It said higher oil exports had helped current account data in the first half but non-oil revenue had come in lower than expected despite reforms to improve the economy. The World Bank expected the fiscal deficit to widen in 2018, with portfolio investors exercising caution ahead of the election, despite rising local yields. GDP grew by 0.83 percent last year after shrinking by 1.58 percent in 2016, its first annual contraction in 25 years. For this year, Nigeria’s central bank is projecting growth of 1.75 percent. The World Bank said growth in the farm sector, which has been resilient in the past, had slowed to 1.2 percent under the impact of security challenges in the north. Read More 1 Sh10b refugees project in limbo as dispute erupts 2 World Bank, IMF add climate change to debt-reduction talks 3 World Bank gives Sh72m grant for water supply 4 Kenya borrows Sh27b in December pushing debt to Sh7.3trillion The World Bank said non-oil industry and services, which make up more than half of Nigeria’s economy, had been boosted by growth in construction, transport and communication technology. But it said investment in human capital, which the government has been seeking to boost, remained low compared with other countries. Nigeria is largely dependent on its oil sector for government revenues and foreign exchange, but it has been constrained by a subsidy on petrol and other deductions, the bank said, noting that foreign investment was stagnant. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! It said higher oil exports had helped current account data in the first half but non-oil revenue had come in lower than expected despite reforms to improve the economy. The World Bank expected the fiscal deficit to widen in 2018, with portfolio investors exercising caution ahead of the election, despite rising local yields. The World Bank said growth in the farm sector, which has been resilient in the past, had slowed to 1.2 percent under the impact of security challenges in the north. Read More 1 Sh10b refugees project in limbo as dispute erupts 2 World Bank, IMF add climate change to debt-reduction talks 3 World Bank gives Sh72m grant for water supply 4 Kenya borrows Sh27b in December pushing debt to Sh7.3trillion The World Bank said non-oil industry and services, which make up more than half of Nigeria’s economy, had been boosted by growth in construction, transport and communication technology. But it said investment in human capital, which the government has been seeking to boost, remained low compared with other countries. Nigeria is largely dependent on its oil sector for government revenues and foreign exchange, but it has been constrained by a subsidy on petrol and other deductions, the bank said, noting that foreign investment was stagnant. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! It said higher oil exports had helped current account data in the first half but non-oil revenue had come in lower than expected despite reforms to improve the economy. The World Bank expected the fiscal deficit to widen in 2018, with portfolio investors exercising caution ahead of the election, despite rising local yields. Read More The World Bank said non-oil industry and services, which make up more than half of Nigeria’s economy, had been boosted by growth in construction, transport and communication technology. But it said investment in human capital, which the government has been seeking to boost, remained low compared with other countries. Nigeria is largely dependent on its oil sector for government revenues and foreign exchange, but it has been constrained by a subsidy on petrol and other deductions, the bank said, noting that foreign investment was stagnant. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! It said higher oil exports had helped current account data in the first half but non-oil revenue had come in lower than expected despite reforms to improve the economy. The World Bank expected the fiscal deficit to widen in 2018, with portfolio investors exercising caution ahead of the election, despite rising local yields. But it said investment in human capital, which the government has been seeking to boost, remained low compared with other countries. Nigeria is largely dependent on its oil sector for government revenues and foreign exchange, but it has been constrained by a subsidy on petrol and other deductions, the bank said, noting that foreign investment was stagnant. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! It said higher oil exports had helped current account data in the first half but non-oil revenue had come in lower than expected despite reforms to improve the economy. The World Bank expected the fiscal deficit to widen in 2018, with portfolio investors exercising caution ahead of the election, despite rising local yields. Nigeria is largely dependent on its oil sector for government revenues and foreign exchange, but it has been constrained by a subsidy on petrol and other deductions, the bank said, noting that foreign investment was stagnant. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! It said higher oil exports had helped current account data in the first half but non-oil revenue had come in lower than expected despite reforms to improve the economy. The World Bank expected the fiscal deficit to widen in 2018, with portfolio investors exercising caution ahead of the election, despite rising local yields. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! It said higher oil exports had helped current account data in the first half but non-oil revenue had come in lower than expected despite reforms to improve the economy. The World Bank expected the fiscal deficit to widen in 2018, with portfolio investors exercising caution ahead of the election, despite rising local yields. The World Bank expected the fiscal deficit to widen in 2018, with portfolio investors exercising caution ahead of the election, despite rising local yields. VIDEOS Related Topics Share this story Share your valuable feedback on your experience of the website. MOST READ Murder at the altar: When men of the cloth turn into killers Oburu says Raila could work with Ruto in 2022 Police teargas Tanga Tanga MPS at London ward by-election Majimbo Kalasinga wins Kabuchai parliamentary by-election Jubilee has been invaded but I have a plan, says Ruto Orengo: Uhuru men in a plot to sabotage Raila RELATED STORIES Kenya to get part of Sh30tr clean energy fund - World Bank LATEST STORIES Here’s why the women you see in the news matter CHECKPOINT 4 days ago 6 days ago 8 days ago 13 days ago THE STANDARD INSIDER Kibicho: Is he Deep state or politicians’ punching bag? My deep voice is medically induced Uhuru’s night call that calmed Raila Fears of third wave as new Covid-19 infections increase steadily More stories New coffee mill in Baringo set to roar in May Kenya eyes over 9m passengers State to spend Sh1.5b in restoring Mt Kenya MPs scold Treasury for not taming rising debt Uhuru drums up support for regional integration Kenya’s trade deal with UK uncertain Take a Break  Standard Gaming Standard Gaming Standard Gaming Kindly click the button below to give us your feedback. Thank you! Get Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! Register  Login  OR Forgot Password Login  OR