 JavaScript is disabled! Please enable JavaScript in your web browser! Twitter tumbles on fear of conservative backlash By Reuters | November 30th 2018 at 09:35:53 GMT +0300 SAN FRANCISCO- Shares of Twitter Inc tumbled 6 percent on Thursday after reports that Fox News had not tweeted for three weeks sparked fears of a backlash by conservatives protesting a perceived liberal bias by the company. Twenty-First Century Fox Inc’s Fox News has not tweeted to its 18.3 million followers since November 8, an apparent boycott of the social network, Politico reported on Wednesday. It stopped tweeting after activists used Twitter to post the home address of prominent news host Tucker Carlson, media news site Mediaite reported on November 9. Demonstrators targeted Carlson’s home in Washington with a protest and shouted threats, he told the Washington Post. Fox News and Twitter declined to comment. Facebook and other social media networks are facing calls for increased regulation and criticism of their handling of user data and the role their platforms have played in a divisive US political climate in recent years. Read More 1 Twitter will explore letting users receive payments from followers 2 Twitter investors look past warning of slower user growth and eye rising ad sales 3 Twitter acquires newsletter startup Revue 4 Twitter permanently suspends CEO's account over misinformation Still, analysts viewed Thursday’s stock drop as an over-reaction. “I think the people who want to be alarmist will say this is the first step toward losing the conservatives, and that this could snowball. But at this point, I think that’s overly alarmist, and I don’t see it as a big deal. So I see this as a buying opportunity,” said FBN analyst Shebly Seyrafi, who has an “outperform” rating on Twitter’s stock. Last month, Twitter posted quarterly results that far exceeded Wall Street’s estimates even after it purged millions of fake accounts used for disinformation and other abuses. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! Conservatives in the past have complained about having their accounts unfairly closed by Twitter, and about alleged political bias in the California company’s rules. Twitter this week reinstated the account of conservative commentator Jesse Kelly after US Senator-elect Josh Hawley said that Congress should investigate the company after it closed Kelly’s account, and the account of Canadian feminist Megan Murphy. The company said on Wednesday that it had suspended an account for impersonating Russian President Vladimir Putin. Twenty-First Century Fox Inc’s Fox News has not tweeted to its 18.3 million followers since November 8, an apparent boycott of the social network, Politico reported on Wednesday. It stopped tweeting after activists used Twitter to post the home address of prominent news host Tucker Carlson, media news site Mediaite reported on November 9. Demonstrators targeted Carlson’s home in Washington with a protest and shouted threats, he told the Washington Post. Fox News and Twitter declined to comment. Facebook and other social media networks are facing calls for increased regulation and criticism of their handling of user data and the role their platforms have played in a divisive US political climate in recent years. Read More 1 Twitter will explore letting users receive payments from followers 2 Twitter investors look past warning of slower user growth and eye rising ad sales 3 Twitter acquires newsletter startup Revue 4 Twitter permanently suspends CEO's account over misinformation Still, analysts viewed Thursday’s stock drop as an over-reaction. “I think the people who want to be alarmist will say this is the first step toward losing the conservatives, and that this could snowball. But at this point, I think that’s overly alarmist, and I don’t see it as a big deal. So I see this as a buying opportunity,” said FBN analyst Shebly Seyrafi, who has an “outperform” rating on Twitter’s stock. Last month, Twitter posted quarterly results that far exceeded Wall Street’s estimates even after it purged millions of fake accounts used for disinformation and other abuses. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! Conservatives in the past have complained about having their accounts unfairly closed by Twitter, and about alleged political bias in the California company’s rules. Twitter this week reinstated the account of conservative commentator Jesse Kelly after US Senator-elect Josh Hawley said that Congress should investigate the company after it closed Kelly’s account, and the account of Canadian feminist Megan Murphy. The company said on Wednesday that it had suspended an account for impersonating Russian President Vladimir Putin. It stopped tweeting after activists used Twitter to post the home address of prominent news host Tucker Carlson, media news site Mediaite reported on November 9. Demonstrators targeted Carlson’s home in Washington with a protest and shouted threats, he told the Washington Post. Fox News and Twitter declined to comment. Facebook and other social media networks are facing calls for increased regulation and criticism of their handling of user data and the role their platforms have played in a divisive US political climate in recent years. Read More 1 Twitter will explore letting users receive payments from followers 2 Twitter investors look past warning of slower user growth and eye rising ad sales 3 Twitter acquires newsletter startup Revue 4 Twitter permanently suspends CEO's account over misinformation Still, analysts viewed Thursday’s stock drop as an over-reaction. “I think the people who want to be alarmist will say this is the first step toward losing the conservatives, and that this could snowball. But at this point, I think that’s overly alarmist, and I don’t see it as a big deal. So I see this as a buying opportunity,” said FBN analyst Shebly Seyrafi, who has an “outperform” rating on Twitter’s stock. Last month, Twitter posted quarterly results that far exceeded Wall Street’s estimates even after it purged millions of fake accounts used for disinformation and other abuses. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! Conservatives in the past have complained about having their accounts unfairly closed by Twitter, and about alleged political bias in the California company’s rules. Twitter this week reinstated the account of conservative commentator Jesse Kelly after US Senator-elect Josh Hawley said that Congress should investigate the company after it closed Kelly’s account, and the account of Canadian feminist Megan Murphy. The company said on Wednesday that it had suspended an account for impersonating Russian President Vladimir Putin. Fox News and Twitter declined to comment. Facebook and other social media networks are facing calls for increased regulation and criticism of their handling of user data and the role their platforms have played in a divisive US political climate in recent years. Read More 1 Twitter will explore letting users receive payments from followers 2 Twitter investors look past warning of slower user growth and eye rising ad sales 3 Twitter acquires newsletter startup Revue 4 Twitter permanently suspends CEO's account over misinformation Still, analysts viewed Thursday’s stock drop as an over-reaction. “I think the people who want to be alarmist will say this is the first step toward losing the conservatives, and that this could snowball. But at this point, I think that’s overly alarmist, and I don’t see it as a big deal. So I see this as a buying opportunity,” said FBN analyst Shebly Seyrafi, who has an “outperform” rating on Twitter’s stock. Last month, Twitter posted quarterly results that far exceeded Wall Street’s estimates even after it purged millions of fake accounts used for disinformation and other abuses. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! Conservatives in the past have complained about having their accounts unfairly closed by Twitter, and about alleged political bias in the California company’s rules. Twitter this week reinstated the account of conservative commentator Jesse Kelly after US Senator-elect Josh Hawley said that Congress should investigate the company after it closed Kelly’s account, and the account of Canadian feminist Megan Murphy. The company said on Wednesday that it had suspended an account for impersonating Russian President Vladimir Putin. Facebook and other social media networks are facing calls for increased regulation and criticism of their handling of user data and the role their platforms have played in a divisive US political climate in recent years. Read More 1 Twitter will explore letting users receive payments from followers 2 Twitter investors look past warning of slower user growth and eye rising ad sales 3 Twitter acquires newsletter startup Revue 4 Twitter permanently suspends CEO's account over misinformation Still, analysts viewed Thursday’s stock drop as an over-reaction. “I think the people who want to be alarmist will say this is the first step toward losing the conservatives, and that this could snowball. But at this point, I think that’s overly alarmist, and I don’t see it as a big deal. So I see this as a buying opportunity,” said FBN analyst Shebly Seyrafi, who has an “outperform” rating on Twitter’s stock. Last month, Twitter posted quarterly results that far exceeded Wall Street’s estimates even after it purged millions of fake accounts used for disinformation and other abuses. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! Conservatives in the past have complained about having their accounts unfairly closed by Twitter, and about alleged political bias in the California company’s rules. Twitter this week reinstated the account of conservative commentator Jesse Kelly after US Senator-elect Josh Hawley said that Congress should investigate the company after it closed Kelly’s account, and the account of Canadian feminist Megan Murphy. The company said on Wednesday that it had suspended an account for impersonating Russian President Vladimir Putin. Read More Still, analysts viewed Thursday’s stock drop as an over-reaction. “I think the people who want to be alarmist will say this is the first step toward losing the conservatives, and that this could snowball. But at this point, I think that’s overly alarmist, and I don’t see it as a big deal. So I see this as a buying opportunity,” said FBN analyst Shebly Seyrafi, who has an “outperform” rating on Twitter’s stock. Last month, Twitter posted quarterly results that far exceeded Wall Street’s estimates even after it purged millions of fake accounts used for disinformation and other abuses. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! Conservatives in the past have complained about having their accounts unfairly closed by Twitter, and about alleged political bias in the California company’s rules. Twitter this week reinstated the account of conservative commentator Jesse Kelly after US Senator-elect Josh Hawley said that Congress should investigate the company after it closed Kelly’s account, and the account of Canadian feminist Megan Murphy. The company said on Wednesday that it had suspended an account for impersonating Russian President Vladimir Putin. “I think the people who want to be alarmist will say this is the first step toward losing the conservatives, and that this could snowball. But at this point, I think that’s overly alarmist, and I don’t see it as a big deal. So I see this as a buying opportunity,” said FBN analyst Shebly Seyrafi, who has an “outperform” rating on Twitter’s stock. Last month, Twitter posted quarterly results that far exceeded Wall Street’s estimates even after it purged millions of fake accounts used for disinformation and other abuses. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! Conservatives in the past have complained about having their accounts unfairly closed by Twitter, and about alleged political bias in the California company’s rules. Twitter this week reinstated the account of conservative commentator Jesse Kelly after US Senator-elect Josh Hawley said that Congress should investigate the company after it closed Kelly’s account, and the account of Canadian feminist Megan Murphy. The company said on Wednesday that it had suspended an account for impersonating Russian President Vladimir Putin. Last month, Twitter posted quarterly results that far exceeded Wall Street’s estimates even after it purged millions of fake accounts used for disinformation and other abuses. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! Conservatives in the past have complained about having their accounts unfairly closed by Twitter, and about alleged political bias in the California company’s rules. Twitter this week reinstated the account of conservative commentator Jesse Kelly after US Senator-elect Josh Hawley said that Congress should investigate the company after it closed Kelly’s account, and the account of Canadian feminist Megan Murphy. The company said on Wednesday that it had suspended an account for impersonating Russian President Vladimir Putin. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! Conservatives in the past have complained about having their accounts unfairly closed by Twitter, and about alleged political bias in the California company’s rules. Twitter this week reinstated the account of conservative commentator Jesse Kelly after US Senator-elect Josh Hawley said that Congress should investigate the company after it closed Kelly’s account, and the account of Canadian feminist Megan Murphy. The company said on Wednesday that it had suspended an account for impersonating Russian President Vladimir Putin. Twitter this week reinstated the account of conservative commentator Jesse Kelly after US Senator-elect Josh Hawley said that Congress should investigate the company after it closed Kelly’s account, and the account of Canadian feminist Megan Murphy. The company said on Wednesday that it had suspended an account for impersonating Russian President Vladimir Putin. The company said on Wednesday that it had suspended an account for impersonating Russian President Vladimir Putin. VIDEOS Related Topics Share this story Share your valuable feedback on your experience of the website. MOST READ Murder at the altar: When men of the cloth turn into killers Oburu says Raila could work with Ruto in 2022 Police teargas Tanga Tanga MPS at London ward by-election Majimbo Kalasinga wins Kabuchai parliamentary by-election Jubilee has been invaded but I have a plan, says Ruto Orengo: Uhuru men in a plot to sabotage Raila RELATED STORIES Twitter locks account of Republican who promoted conspiracy theory LATEST STORIES Here’s why the women you see in the news matter CHECKPOINT 4 days ago 6 days ago 8 days ago 13 days ago THE STANDARD INSIDER Kibicho: Is he Deep state or politicians’ punching bag? My deep voice is medically induced Uhuru’s night call that calmed Raila Fears of third wave as new Covid-19 infections increase steadily More stories Why you should not rush to Bitcoin just yet Bitcoin on your balance sheet? Here's what you need to know Antivirus pioneer McAfee charged by US with cryptocurrency fraud Wealth managers frustrated over bitcoin, anxious for piece of the action Global semiconductor shortage spurs run on vintage chipmaking tools YouTube removes five Myanmar TV channels from platform Take a Break  Standard Gaming Standard Gaming Standard Gaming Kindly click the button below to give us your feedback. Thank you! Get Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! Register  Login  OR Forgot Password Login  OR