 JavaScript is disabled! Please enable JavaScript in your web browser! Tullow Oil returns to dividends in 2019, projects drop in net debt By Reuters | November 30th 2018 at 10:42:04 GMT +0300 Tullow Oil will return to paying dividends, which it suspended in 2015 due to the oil price crash, and expects to pay out at least $100 million from 2019 with an option for a special dividend for this year, it said. Tullow forecast its net debt would drop to $2.8 billion by the end of the year and slightly raised its full-year free cash flow to $700 million earlier this month, helped by trimming its capital expenditure. Tullow has around 1.39 billion outstanding shares, according to Refinitiv Eikon data, implying a dividend of at least around $0.07 per share. “Having reached our target of being a balanced self-funding exploration and production business and having embedded cost discipline across the group, this is the right time to reinstate a dividend and focus on our plans for growth,” Chief Executive Paul McDade said in a statement on Thursday. The dividend will be paid on a semi-annual basis based on the free cash flow Tullow makes while keeping debt and investment in mind, it said, adding the board will look at other types of returns to shareholders if cash abounds. Read More 1 State extends Tullow's licence 2 Lower prices put Turkana oil in limbo 3 Experts debate opportunities in East Africa’s oil and gas industry 4 Oil pilot project ends with little to show after 2 years “With respect to the 2018 financial year, the board will review the potential for a one-off ordinary dividend after the year-end financial close,” Tullow said. Tullow, with a market cap of around 2.5 billion pounds ($3.2 billion), had raised the possibility of returning to paying dividends in April. Tullow plans to spend $570 million next year, at the upper end of its $200-$600 million capital expenditure range. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! At a capital markets day, McDade told reporters plans for final investment decisions on its East African ventures in Uganda in the first half and Kenya at the end of next year still held. He said the company was driving to complete a farm-down - or the sale of a share in its rights over a discovery - in Uganda to Total by the end of this year, but declined to put a probability on that timeframe. As for the pipeline project in Kenya that would carry oil from onshore fields to the port of Lamu, he said if all commercial and ownership questions were settled by the third quarter of 2019, a final investment decision would still be possible by the end of that year. In addition to its fields in Ghana, where it will reach gross plateau production of 180,000 barrels per day over the coming weeks, the East African ventures are due to boost Tullow’s output by around 50 percent to 150,000 bpd from the early 2020s. Tullow also plans to drill three wells offshore Guyana next year in one of the world’s most-watched basins. Tullow forecast its net debt would drop to $2.8 billion by the end of the year and slightly raised its full-year free cash flow to $700 million earlier this month, helped by trimming its capital expenditure. Tullow has around 1.39 billion outstanding shares, according to Refinitiv Eikon data, implying a dividend of at least around $0.07 per share. “Having reached our target of being a balanced self-funding exploration and production business and having embedded cost discipline across the group, this is the right time to reinstate a dividend and focus on our plans for growth,” Chief Executive Paul McDade said in a statement on Thursday. The dividend will be paid on a semi-annual basis based on the free cash flow Tullow makes while keeping debt and investment in mind, it said, adding the board will look at other types of returns to shareholders if cash abounds. Read More 1 State extends Tullow's licence 2 Lower prices put Turkana oil in limbo 3 Experts debate opportunities in East Africa’s oil and gas industry 4 Oil pilot project ends with little to show after 2 years “With respect to the 2018 financial year, the board will review the potential for a one-off ordinary dividend after the year-end financial close,” Tullow said. Tullow, with a market cap of around 2.5 billion pounds ($3.2 billion), had raised the possibility of returning to paying dividends in April. Tullow plans to spend $570 million next year, at the upper end of its $200-$600 million capital expenditure range. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! At a capital markets day, McDade told reporters plans for final investment decisions on its East African ventures in Uganda in the first half and Kenya at the end of next year still held. He said the company was driving to complete a farm-down - or the sale of a share in its rights over a discovery - in Uganda to Total by the end of this year, but declined to put a probability on that timeframe. As for the pipeline project in Kenya that would carry oil from onshore fields to the port of Lamu, he said if all commercial and ownership questions were settled by the third quarter of 2019, a final investment decision would still be possible by the end of that year. In addition to its fields in Ghana, where it will reach gross plateau production of 180,000 barrels per day over the coming weeks, the East African ventures are due to boost Tullow’s output by around 50 percent to 150,000 bpd from the early 2020s. Tullow also plans to drill three wells offshore Guyana next year in one of the world’s most-watched basins. Tullow has around 1.39 billion outstanding shares, according to Refinitiv Eikon data, implying a dividend of at least around $0.07 per share. “Having reached our target of being a balanced self-funding exploration and production business and having embedded cost discipline across the group, this is the right time to reinstate a dividend and focus on our plans for growth,” Chief Executive Paul McDade said in a statement on Thursday. The dividend will be paid on a semi-annual basis based on the free cash flow Tullow makes while keeping debt and investment in mind, it said, adding the board will look at other types of returns to shareholders if cash abounds. Read More 1 State extends Tullow's licence 2 Lower prices put Turkana oil in limbo 3 Experts debate opportunities in East Africa’s oil and gas industry 4 Oil pilot project ends with little to show after 2 years “With respect to the 2018 financial year, the board will review the potential for a one-off ordinary dividend after the year-end financial close,” Tullow said. Tullow, with a market cap of around 2.5 billion pounds ($3.2 billion), had raised the possibility of returning to paying dividends in April. Tullow plans to spend $570 million next year, at the upper end of its $200-$600 million capital expenditure range. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! At a capital markets day, McDade told reporters plans for final investment decisions on its East African ventures in Uganda in the first half and Kenya at the end of next year still held. He said the company was driving to complete a farm-down - or the sale of a share in its rights over a discovery - in Uganda to Total by the end of this year, but declined to put a probability on that timeframe. As for the pipeline project in Kenya that would carry oil from onshore fields to the port of Lamu, he said if all commercial and ownership questions were settled by the third quarter of 2019, a final investment decision would still be possible by the end of that year. In addition to its fields in Ghana, where it will reach gross plateau production of 180,000 barrels per day over the coming weeks, the East African ventures are due to boost Tullow’s output by around 50 percent to 150,000 bpd from the early 2020s. Tullow also plans to drill three wells offshore Guyana next year in one of the world’s most-watched basins. “Having reached our target of being a balanced self-funding exploration and production business and having embedded cost discipline across the group, this is the right time to reinstate a dividend and focus on our plans for growth,” Chief Executive Paul McDade said in a statement on Thursday. The dividend will be paid on a semi-annual basis based on the free cash flow Tullow makes while keeping debt and investment in mind, it said, adding the board will look at other types of returns to shareholders if cash abounds. Read More 1 State extends Tullow's licence 2 Lower prices put Turkana oil in limbo 3 Experts debate opportunities in East Africa’s oil and gas industry 4 Oil pilot project ends with little to show after 2 years “With respect to the 2018 financial year, the board will review the potential for a one-off ordinary dividend after the year-end financial close,” Tullow said. Tullow, with a market cap of around 2.5 billion pounds ($3.2 billion), had raised the possibility of returning to paying dividends in April. Tullow plans to spend $570 million next year, at the upper end of its $200-$600 million capital expenditure range. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! At a capital markets day, McDade told reporters plans for final investment decisions on its East African ventures in Uganda in the first half and Kenya at the end of next year still held. He said the company was driving to complete a farm-down - or the sale of a share in its rights over a discovery - in Uganda to Total by the end of this year, but declined to put a probability on that timeframe. As for the pipeline project in Kenya that would carry oil from onshore fields to the port of Lamu, he said if all commercial and ownership questions were settled by the third quarter of 2019, a final investment decision would still be possible by the end of that year. In addition to its fields in Ghana, where it will reach gross plateau production of 180,000 barrels per day over the coming weeks, the East African ventures are due to boost Tullow’s output by around 50 percent to 150,000 bpd from the early 2020s. Tullow also plans to drill three wells offshore Guyana next year in one of the world’s most-watched basins. The dividend will be paid on a semi-annual basis based on the free cash flow Tullow makes while keeping debt and investment in mind, it said, adding the board will look at other types of returns to shareholders if cash abounds. Read More 1 State extends Tullow's licence 2 Lower prices put Turkana oil in limbo 3 Experts debate opportunities in East Africa’s oil and gas industry 4 Oil pilot project ends with little to show after 2 years “With respect to the 2018 financial year, the board will review the potential for a one-off ordinary dividend after the year-end financial close,” Tullow said. Tullow, with a market cap of around 2.5 billion pounds ($3.2 billion), had raised the possibility of returning to paying dividends in April. Tullow plans to spend $570 million next year, at the upper end of its $200-$600 million capital expenditure range. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! At a capital markets day, McDade told reporters plans for final investment decisions on its East African ventures in Uganda in the first half and Kenya at the end of next year still held. He said the company was driving to complete a farm-down - or the sale of a share in its rights over a discovery - in Uganda to Total by the end of this year, but declined to put a probability on that timeframe. As for the pipeline project in Kenya that would carry oil from onshore fields to the port of Lamu, he said if all commercial and ownership questions were settled by the third quarter of 2019, a final investment decision would still be possible by the end of that year. In addition to its fields in Ghana, where it will reach gross plateau production of 180,000 barrels per day over the coming weeks, the East African ventures are due to boost Tullow’s output by around 50 percent to 150,000 bpd from the early 2020s. Tullow also plans to drill three wells offshore Guyana next year in one of the world’s most-watched basins. Read More “With respect to the 2018 financial year, the board will review the potential for a one-off ordinary dividend after the year-end financial close,” Tullow said. Tullow, with a market cap of around 2.5 billion pounds ($3.2 billion), had raised the possibility of returning to paying dividends in April. Tullow plans to spend $570 million next year, at the upper end of its $200-$600 million capital expenditure range. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! At a capital markets day, McDade told reporters plans for final investment decisions on its East African ventures in Uganda in the first half and Kenya at the end of next year still held. He said the company was driving to complete a farm-down - or the sale of a share in its rights over a discovery - in Uganda to Total by the end of this year, but declined to put a probability on that timeframe. As for the pipeline project in Kenya that would carry oil from onshore fields to the port of Lamu, he said if all commercial and ownership questions were settled by the third quarter of 2019, a final investment decision would still be possible by the end of that year. In addition to its fields in Ghana, where it will reach gross plateau production of 180,000 barrels per day over the coming weeks, the East African ventures are due to boost Tullow’s output by around 50 percent to 150,000 bpd from the early 2020s. Tullow also plans to drill three wells offshore Guyana next year in one of the world’s most-watched basins. Tullow, with a market cap of around 2.5 billion pounds ($3.2 billion), had raised the possibility of returning to paying dividends in April. Tullow plans to spend $570 million next year, at the upper end of its $200-$600 million capital expenditure range. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! At a capital markets day, McDade told reporters plans for final investment decisions on its East African ventures in Uganda in the first half and Kenya at the end of next year still held. He said the company was driving to complete a farm-down - or the sale of a share in its rights over a discovery - in Uganda to Total by the end of this year, but declined to put a probability on that timeframe. As for the pipeline project in Kenya that would carry oil from onshore fields to the port of Lamu, he said if all commercial and ownership questions were settled by the third quarter of 2019, a final investment decision would still be possible by the end of that year. In addition to its fields in Ghana, where it will reach gross plateau production of 180,000 barrels per day over the coming weeks, the East African ventures are due to boost Tullow’s output by around 50 percent to 150,000 bpd from the early 2020s. Tullow also plans to drill three wells offshore Guyana next year in one of the world’s most-watched basins. Tullow plans to spend $570 million next year, at the upper end of its $200-$600 million capital expenditure range. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! At a capital markets day, McDade told reporters plans for final investment decisions on its East African ventures in Uganda in the first half and Kenya at the end of next year still held. He said the company was driving to complete a farm-down - or the sale of a share in its rights over a discovery - in Uganda to Total by the end of this year, but declined to put a probability on that timeframe. As for the pipeline project in Kenya that would carry oil from onshore fields to the port of Lamu, he said if all commercial and ownership questions were settled by the third quarter of 2019, a final investment decision would still be possible by the end of that year. In addition to its fields in Ghana, where it will reach gross plateau production of 180,000 barrels per day over the coming weeks, the East African ventures are due to boost Tullow’s output by around 50 percent to 150,000 bpd from the early 2020s. Tullow also plans to drill three wells offshore Guyana next year in one of the world’s most-watched basins. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! At a capital markets day, McDade told reporters plans for final investment decisions on its East African ventures in Uganda in the first half and Kenya at the end of next year still held. He said the company was driving to complete a farm-down - or the sale of a share in its rights over a discovery - in Uganda to Total by the end of this year, but declined to put a probability on that timeframe. As for the pipeline project in Kenya that would carry oil from onshore fields to the port of Lamu, he said if all commercial and ownership questions were settled by the third quarter of 2019, a final investment decision would still be possible by the end of that year. In addition to its fields in Ghana, where it will reach gross plateau production of 180,000 barrels per day over the coming weeks, the East African ventures are due to boost Tullow’s output by around 50 percent to 150,000 bpd from the early 2020s. Tullow also plans to drill three wells offshore Guyana next year in one of the world’s most-watched basins. He said the company was driving to complete a farm-down - or the sale of a share in its rights over a discovery - in Uganda to Total by the end of this year, but declined to put a probability on that timeframe. As for the pipeline project in Kenya that would carry oil from onshore fields to the port of Lamu, he said if all commercial and ownership questions were settled by the third quarter of 2019, a final investment decision would still be possible by the end of that year. In addition to its fields in Ghana, where it will reach gross plateau production of 180,000 barrels per day over the coming weeks, the East African ventures are due to boost Tullow’s output by around 50 percent to 150,000 bpd from the early 2020s. Tullow also plans to drill three wells offshore Guyana next year in one of the world’s most-watched basins. As for the pipeline project in Kenya that would carry oil from onshore fields to the port of Lamu, he said if all commercial and ownership questions were settled by the third quarter of 2019, a final investment decision would still be possible by the end of that year. In addition to its fields in Ghana, where it will reach gross plateau production of 180,000 barrels per day over the coming weeks, the East African ventures are due to boost Tullow’s output by around 50 percent to 150,000 bpd from the early 2020s. Tullow also plans to drill three wells offshore Guyana next year in one of the world’s most-watched basins. In addition to its fields in Ghana, where it will reach gross plateau production of 180,000 barrels per day over the coming weeks, the East African ventures are due to boost Tullow’s output by around 50 percent to 150,000 bpd from the early 2020s. Tullow also plans to drill three wells offshore Guyana next year in one of the world’s most-watched basins. Tullow also plans to drill three wells offshore Guyana next year in one of the world’s most-watched basins. VIDEOS Related Topics Share this story Share your valuable feedback on your experience of the website. MOST READ Murder at the altar: When men of the cloth turn into killers Oburu says Raila could work with Ruto in 2022 Police teargas Tanga Tanga MPS at London ward by-election Majimbo Kalasinga wins Kabuchai parliamentary by-election Jubilee has been invaded but I have a plan, says Ruto Orengo: Uhuru men in a plot to sabotage Raila RELATED STORIES Oil pilot project ends with little to show after 2 years LATEST STORIES Here’s why the women you see in the news matter CHECKPOINT 4 days ago 6 days ago 8 days ago 13 days ago THE STANDARD INSIDER Kibicho: Is he Deep state or politicians’ punching bag? My deep voice is medically induced Uhuru’s night call that calmed Raila Fears of third wave as new Covid-19 infections increase steadily More stories Glovo manager Priscilla Muhiu on career and leadership Education is key to unlocking women’s leadership potential Fears of trade wars as Kenya bans maize from Tanzania, UG Controversial Lake Basin Mall piles up Sh4b debt Kenya has untapped mineral potential – report MPs agree to IMF conditions with new budget directives Take a Break  Standard Gaming Standard Gaming Standard Gaming Kindly click the button below to give us your feedback. Thank you! Get Our Newsletter Subscribe to our newsletter and stay updated on the latest developments and special offers! Register  Login  OR Forgot Password Login  OR