 ET India Inc. Boardroom ET Markets Conclave – Cryptocurrency ET CEO Roundtable The Night of Ideas: 24 Hours Live to Feel "Closer" The Economic Times Digital Payments Forum The Economic Times Startup Awards 2020 Reshape Tomorrow Tomorrow is different. Let's reshape it today TomorrowMakers Let's get smarter about money Corning Gorilla Glass #TougherTogether ET Campus Stars Hunt for the brightest engineers in India Talk Your Heart Out Mental Health Awareness Initiative Nutrition & Immunity The Dynamic Duo of a Holistic Self-Care ETRise Top MSMEs ET Prime Women Leadership Awards Great Manager Awards You are here: ET Home » 404 page 404 page You can search EconomicTimes.com for similar content, browse our most read articles, or go to our Home Page Most Viewed Business News INFOCUS ON ET TODAY TOP STORIES Automation biggies hitch Make in India ride India is an important local manufacturing centre for Schneider, having recently turned one of its factories into a Smart Factory. The company produces goods worth more than one billion euros here, about half of which are exported. Honeywell, which leveraged its India units to meet demand for masks to tackle Covid, is exploring more local options. For whom Vishwas was a tax googly in disguise Promoters are hiking stake in their own cos Why not to run with the bulls with abandon now FPIs are tuning in to the hum of capital goods PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY Amazon's Alexa app gets a makeover, will be customised to suit users' needs Corning launches Gorilla Glass Victus with superior scratch and drop performance; Galaxy Note 20 will be first phone to sport it Spotify expands beyond audio content, launches video feature for podcasts OnePlus Nord launched with 6 cameras at Rs 24,999, to be available on August 4 Unaware Indians' privacy at risk, lockdown gives rise to online spying & stalking apps OnePlus Nord to get a Google twist with pre-installed Duo, Messages, Phone apps Sennheiser Momentum True Wireless 2 review: Features, audio experience make them worth the money HP 14s er0003TU review: Suitable for office-goers and students iOS 14 review: Takes privacy to a new high, has something for everyone Gmail introduces new work tools, will let corporate customers edit documents, files without leaving the email service Users wake up to #WhatsAppDown trend on Twitter, netizens have a field day Amazfit Bip S Lite will come to India on July 29, Verge Lite relaunched at Rs 4,999 Samsung Galaxy Tab S6 Lite review: Slim tablet with the interesting S-Pen Acer Aspire 7 review: Lets you work hard, game harder Sony WF-XB700 review: Water-resistant earbuds with excellent battery backup EMERGING ENTERPRISE Covid-19 can't kill zeal of Flipkart and Amazon's staff priming for big sale days FreshToHome in talks for fresh $130 million funding Early Diwali as Covid-hit banks offer cracking deals on e-commerce WeKan looks to incubate, fund 20 Indian startups Pepper Content raises $4.2 million in funding led by Lightspeed India Online brands see higher growth on own channels, apps over Flipkart, Amazon Avataar.me raises $7 million from Sequoia India Investors steer clear of young startups with Chinese capital GIC, Sequoia in Razorpay's $100 million round; valuation may hit $1 billion Tata Group evaluates M&A opportunities to scale up Ecommerce play Policies to revamp e-gifting options underway for the upcoming festive season Flipkart, Walmart deliver $30 million more to Ninjacart Meru Cabs launches office commute service SoftBank, armed with billions in cash, joins blank check binge Food delivery volumes in India reach pre-Covid-19 peaks: Zomato's Deepinder Goyal SPOTLIGHT Bank Street What happens when 2nd 3-month moratorium ends in August? The month of September, when loan repayments must resume, will be a time of reckoning for India's banks. Life in a lockdown Stricter lockdown on weekends in Uttar Pradesh The Uttar Pradesh govt has decided to impose a stricter lockdown across the state on weekends to stop the COVID spread, a senior official said. Industry News TRAI doesn't want Airtel, Voda Idea to go premium Trai blocked premium plans that offer faster data, saying these could lower quality of mobile services. Economic Indicators Indian economy showing signs of normalcy: RBI Governor Covid may lead to higher NPAs and capital erosion of banks,  while MFs may turn a stress point, Das has said. Mutual funds Valuations elevated, make fresh allocations using SIP says Quantum MF After the sharp run up over the last one year, equity fund managers at Quantum Mutual Fund believe investors should make any fresh allocation into equities in a staggered manner or using the SIP route. ‘ Slideshow Platter President Trump wears mask for the first time in public Yielding to pressure, US President Donald Trump was finally seen wearing a face mask in public for the first time since the pandemic took over the country. Panache Duchess emerges victorious! Meghan Markle wins plea to keep friends anonymous in UK court trial Markle is seeking damages from ANL for alleged misuse of private information. India-China face-off In India-China crisis, an India-US bonanza in view Experts say India could finally end equivocation about openly aligning itself with the long-eager US. Small Biz Zomato revenue doubles to $394 million in FY20 In the first quarter of the ongoing fiscal year, the company's Ebitda loss stood at $12 million on revenue of $41 million and unit economics of its food delivery business improved. Covid Updates Bihar sees record 1266 cases in a day Bihar saw a record high of 1,266 fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday at a test positivity rate of over 13 percent, taking the tally of total cases to 16,305. Wealth Wisdom How 6 money errors in Covid times could be avoided During the Covid crisis, did you withdraw from your EPF? Or did you avail the loan moratorium? Or did you withdraw from equity when the market crashed? If you have made such mistakes, here's how a financial planner could have helped you. ETMarkets Mukesh Ambani is coming for India’s phones and wallets The oil-and-petrochemicals tycoon’s digital services startup requires him to dominate the use of mobile devices, while his retail chain, India’s largest, needs maximum grip on customers’ moneybags. Trending Now Popular Categories Hot on Web In Case you missed it ET Verticals More from our network Other useful Links services Follow us on: Download ET App: subscribe to our newsletter