 The Sydney Morning Herald The Sydney Morning Herald Premium More This was published 2 years ago Police were hunting for a double murderer. He was already behind bars for another horrific crime By Georgina Mitchell Six years after Daniel James Holdom brutally murdered a mother and her toddler daughter, leaving one in a forest and one in a suitcase on the side of the road, he was jailed over the sexual assault of a nine-year-old girl. It was 2014, and Holdom, 44, had not yet been charged with killing Karlie Pearce-Stevenson, 20, and her daughter Khandalyce, 2, days apart in December 2008.  Replay     The remains of Ms Pearce-Stevenson had been found in the Belanglo State Forest in August 2010, but there was no clue about her identity and she was known only as "the Angel of Belanglo" because of the motif on a shirt found near her bones. Khandalyce was dumped about 1200 kilometres away, in a suitcase next to a remote highway at Wynarka in South Australia, and would not be discovered until July 2015, when police launched a huge operation to determine her identity. In 2014, Holdom faced the NSW District Court and was jailed for a maximum of four years and three months after he sexually assaulted a nine-year-old who lived in a neighbouring caravan on the NSW Central Coast. Daniel Holdom is led from court following his sentencing on Friday. Credit: James Brickwood Holdom removed the girl's pyjamas and assaulted her. He denied it when the girl told her mother what happened. His DNA was found in the girl's underwear and he was convicted of having sexual intercourse with a child under the age of 10. While Holdom was in jail, police in two states connected the dots and discovered the "angel of Belanglo" was Ms Pearce-Stevenson and the girl in the suitcase was Khandalyce. He was charged over their murders while still behind bars for the sexual assault, after being rejected for parole. Holdom pleaded guilty in July this year, a week before his trial was due to start. On Friday, as he was sentenced in the NSW Supreme Court to two terms of life imprisonment , Holdom tried to withdraw his guilty plea to the murder of Khandalyce but Justice Robert Allan Hulme dismissed his application. Members of the public gallery applauded when the life sentences were handed down. Daniel James Holdom has been given two life sentences for the murder of  Karlie Pearce-Stevenson and her daughter Khandalyce. Holdom had been in a short-term relationship with Ms Pearce-Stevenson when he led her into Belanglo State Forest in south-eastern NSW on December 15, 2008, and killed her by stomping on her chest and throat. He used foreign objects to sexually assault her at the time of her death and took photographs of what he had done, which were later found on an SD memory card. Daniel James Holdom in 2015, when he was charged by police. Credit: NSW Police He then collected Khandalyce and suffocated her to death, dumping her body in a suitcase on the side of the road at Wynarka in South Australia. Holdom admitted he was "at least attempting to or planning" to sexually assault the child, but whether he did is unknown. Justice Hulme said Holdom's crimes were "callous", "sadistic", of "very grave heinousness", and so extreme he needed to impose the "ultimate sentence". He said the photographs Holdom took of the young mother were a "vile trophy of his own inhumanity" and the killer "has chosen not to provide a reliable and detailed account of why he did what he did". In a statement on behalf of the family, victim advocate Michael O'Connell said Holdom had "forfeited his right to existence" and no sentence would ever bring closure. "He murdered a young mother and her child. He stole their whole lives from them, and from us," Mr O'Connell said. "His brutality will haunt us forever. Nothing done to him will bring Karlie and Khandalyce back or repay the toll on us. "From now until he dies, young women and children must be protected – their safety must be paramount. We do not want another family to suffer as we have." Justice Hulme said Holdom had a criminal record in three states and the Northern Territory, including for a 1999 assault where he tried to strangle his girlfriend and placed a pillow over her face when she ended their relationship. After the murders, Holdom used Ms Pearce-Stevenson's mobile phone for three years, including to text message her mother to make it appear as though she was still alive. He stole about $72,000 from her bank accounts, which he used until 2012, by collecting Centrelink payments and charging expenses to her credit card. The mother and daughter were reported missing in 2009, but that missing persons report was withdrawn after Ms Pearce-Stevenson's family received a text message from her phone. Holdom sat silently in the dock while he was sentenced on Friday, leaning forward and resting his head on his hand. Georgina Mitchell Georgina Mitchell is a court reporter for The Sydney Morning Herald. Most Viewed in National From our partners The Sydney Morning Herald Our Sites Classifieds The Sydney Morning Herald Products & Services Copyright © 2021