 hook ups & break ups Meet Tiffany Trump’s new billionaire boyfriend Michael Boulos Tiffany Trump is reportedly dating a billionaire construction heir who grew up in one of the nations which her father infamously called a “sh*thole”. Tiffany Trump reportedly has a new boyfriend. Picture: AP Source:AP Tiffany Trump is quietly dating a wealthy scion from Nigeria, one of the nations President Trump supposedly slammed as a “sh*thole country.” The New York Post reports that Tiffany is seeing handsome Michael Boulos, who grew up in Lagos, where his well-connected family owns a multibillion-dollar conglomerate that trades in vehicles, equipment, retail and construction. Tiffany Trump (R) and Michael Boulos attend the Taoray Wang show during New York Fashion Week in September. Picture: Getty Source:Supplied A source said Tiffany met London-based Boulos, whose family is of Lebanese origin, on vacation in Mykonos, Greece, this summer. Things have been going so well that the law student — who split from Democrat Ross Mechanic in the spring — even brought Mr Boulos to the Trumps’ Mar-a-Lago for thanksgiving. Tiffany Trump and former boyfriend Ross Mechanic. Picture: Supplied Source:Supplied A source told us, “Tiffany is happy she has so far been able to keep things with Michael under the radar. But she introduced him to her family at thanksgiving, and he comes across as a very intelligent young man from a great family. There was no mention of the president’s unfortunate comment about African nations.” From left, Tiffany Trump, the Daughter of President Donald Trump, Donald Trump Jr. and his new girlfriend Kimberly Guilfoyle, at the National Christmas tree lighting ceremony in Washington DC. Picture: AP Source:AP Mr Boulos attended an elite international school in Nigeria, and his brother Fares is an actor and rapper who performs as Farastafari. Their family founded Boulos Enterprises and the publicly traded conglomerate SCOA Nigeria. Mr Trump reportedly called El Salvador, Haiti and unspecified nations in Africa “sh*thole countries,” saying during a January meeting on immigration, “Why are we having all these people from sh*thole countries come here?” Marla Maples (L) and her daughter, Tiffany Trump. Picture: Getty Source:Getty Images Nigeria was outraged and responded by saying the comment was “deeply hurtful, offensive and unacceptable” if true, and demanded clarification from US officials. Mr Trump later denied using the derogatory phrase, but he admitted the language he had used at the Oval Office meeting was tough. He then described Nigeria as “beautiful” when meeting with its president, Muhammadu Buhari, in April, adding that he’d like to visit. The Trump family and Michael Boulos didn’t respond to requests for comment. Marla Maples with former husband Donald Trump in 1995. Picture: Supplied Source:AP Donald Trump's most childish habits... Donald Trump's most childish habits This article originally appeared in the New York Post and is republished here with permission trending in entertainment MORE IN celebrity life Photo raises question over star’s marriage Cardi’s X-rated reason for taking back ex Star ‘embarrassed’ by kissing photos Lily James’ awkward video amid affair Star’s stunning comments about cheating A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING: We collect information about the content (including ads) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and other sites. Find out more about our policy and your choices, including how to opt-out. Nationwide News Pty Limited Copyright © 2021. All times AEDT (GMT +11). Powered by WordPress.com VIP