 More Banking royal commission: NAB reveals patchy systems and fearful employees The parlous state of affairs inside NAB has been exposed in an piece of self-reflection that shows the financial institution has become paralysed by a lack of accountability, ignorance and under investment in its systems at the expense of its employees. The document, which attempts to reinforce the bank's vision to "back the bold" and move Australia forward, reveals that one out of every four employees is afraid of reporting unethical behaviour for fear of retribution. The observations are contained in a self-assessment of the bank's governance, culture and accountability frameworks requested by APRA following the independent review into the same issues at Commonwealth Bank. The bank's self-assessments were due to be sent to APRA on Friday but NAB opted to make the document available publicly, releasing it on the final day of hearings at the Hayne royal commission. The document will make for difficult reading among the bank's 30,000 employees who may still be reeling after the performances of CEO Andrew Thorburn and chairman Dr Ken Henry at the royal commission earlier this week. Related Quotes During Mr Thorburn's evidence he used the words distracted and drifting to describe the actions of executives and the state of the bank. Among the observations made in the 60-page document is the bank "didn't always listen and learn", it had "a tendency to confuse action with progress" and it relied too heavily on the goodwill of its employees. "We encouraged a 'get it done' attitude, at the expense of enforcing strict disciplines about what gets done where, and how it gets done. Further, we have not been ruthless in consolidating and decommissioning systems and keeping them up to date," the report says. "We have over-relied on our people to make up for deficiencies in our systems and processes." The report follows the release of similar findings against Commonwealth Bank, which also found an institution that had also chronically under invested in its systems. The NAB report titled NAB self-assessment on governance, culture and accountability was based on interviews with more than 50 NAB executives, 23 focus groups, including 150 employees, and drew on more than 1000 documents. The report is a top-to-tail assessment of the bank's shortcomings, including those of the board. The report says the board needed to be "more searching and/or demanding of management, and therefore more effective". The document says insufficient time at board meetings had been allocated to important issues highlighting the fees-for-no-service issue. Earlier this year ASIC launched legal action against the bank after more than three years of tricky dealings with the regulator . NAB management came in for criticism, with the observation that executives had a tendency to view problems with rose-tinted glasses and assign responsibility for fixing them to relatively junior employees. "Management is overly optimistic of its capacity to remediate identified issues. This has resulted in proposed timelines for solutions being exceeded ... tasks tend to be assigned to generalists rather than to specialists with the expertise required" the report says. It also takes issue with the speed at which problems are fixed and customers repaid saying "there is a tolerance for timeframes that are comfortable rather than stretching" and found historical issues have reappeared "because of non-sustainable or incomplete solutions". The bank's risk management functions – which have been exposed by the royal commission as completely inadequate – have not been spared either with a recent report from EY describing its risk-management framework as "partially effective". The report says that compliance staff have traditionally not had a strong voice at the bank and made impotent by the lack of "veto authority". The report confirms earlier reports the bank's compliance rating has been red for the past five years except for a brief period in 2016 and says the risk governance committee had been focused on the wrong things. The bank accepts that it has not listened to or learned enough from its customers, regulators and employees. Fairfax Media During National Australia Bank CEO Andrew Thorburn's evidence he used the words distracted and drifting to describe the actions of executives and the state of the bank. Ellen Smith Read More Latest Stories Lex Greensill, Sanjeev Gupta, who’d have guessed! The Greensill-Gupta alliance was one punctured liberally with red flags. With closed borders, getting staff for Thai restaurants has been hard Wage subsidies for apprentices have been vital for Melbourne restaurateur Mandy Lingard to keep trading through the pandemic. Morrison plans recovery phase, migration critical The Prime Minister has nominated clean affordable energy, a skilled and scaled-up workforce and digital advance as key to the post-pandemic economic recovery. Australian regulators put heat on Credit Suisse over Greensill ASIC and APRA have applied the blowtorch to the Swiss group’s Australian outpost, scrutinising its heavy involvement in Greensill Capital. Sponsored Latest In Financial services Lex Greensill, Sanjeev Gupta, who’d have guessed! Australian regulators put heat on Credit Suisse over Greensill PE funds chase NZ’s top IVF group Fertility Associates Pemba Capital hits 22nd tech investment with RxMx TAL Dai-ichi Life bankers up for Westpac unit Most Viewed In Companies Law firm CEO caught in email storm Qantas sues ex-executive over defection to Virgin frequent flyer Insider trader paid for $2.4m Block apartment with 25-minute trade China ban gives Australian coal miners a quality quandary As Cairns hotels dip below $99, NSW coastline cashes in Melbourne chef reveals restaurant recipe for must-have cheese dish ‘Like their firstborn’: Car makers obsess over detail for the top 1pc Tesla’s electric evolution Just four ASX20 companies near 50pc women in management Thick-skinned Moult works to change Yancoal’s stripes Yancoal’s Chinese backers want to invest more in Australia For this Rich Lister, hanging around has been a game-changer Milan designers hit reset button during digital fashion week How Heathcote’s vineyards are adapting to climate change The problem with our Rich List The nation’s richest women revealed Busy running the marathon for Visy The Daily Habit of Successful People Subscribe Subscribe About Us About Us Contact Contact Magazines Magazines Columns Columns Markets Data Markets Data Lists Lists Events Events Our Network Our Network Terms and Conditions Terms and Conditions