 City Inner East East Outer East Inner South South East West North West North Albury Wodonga Ballarat Bass Coast Bendigo Goulburn Valley Mildura Local Footy Local Sport Breaking News Education Police and Courts Podcasts Read Today's Paper Classifieds Breaking News Coronavirus True Crime Andrew Bolt Rita Panahi Peta Credlin Susie O'Brien Andrew Rule James Campbell Terry McCrann Patrick Carlyon Leigh Paatsch In Black and White Mark Robinson Jon Ralph Victoria Business Breaking News Barefoot Investor Personal Finance Terry McCrann Confidential Page 13 Fiona Byrne Movies Music TV & Radio Competitions Food Fashion Health Travel Technology Games Horoscopes Real Estate Home & Garden Motoring Pets and Wildlife Stellar SMARTdaily Delicious 100 AFL Cricket Olympics Horse Racing Football NRL More Sports Rugby Podcasts Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show’s most memorable runway moments As lingerie giant Victoria’s Secret opens its first Australian flagship store at Chadstone today, take a look at some of the finest — and funniest — moments from its famous fashion shows. Victoria’s Secret, the world’s biggest lingerie brand, opened its first Australian store today – fittingly, in Victoria. Chadstone Shopping Centre is anticipating big crowds through its doors after the lingerie giant’s flagship store — whose “Angels” have included Tyra Banks, Heidi Klum, Gisele Bündchen and Australian Miranda Kerr — opened at 5.30am to accommodate demand. A limited range of Victoria’s Secret underwear, beauty products and merchandise has already been available in some speciality stores across the country, but the expansive Chadstone store is the first to stock the full Victoria’s Secret range, including PINK and VS Sport. VICTORIA’S SECRET IN STEADY DECLINE INSIDE VICTORIA’S SECRET’S 2018 $125 MILLION CATWALK VICTORIA’S SECRET FASHION SHOW IS THE DEFINITION OF INSANITY It’s a big week for the lingerie giant, with its annual Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show to air over the weekend. Watched by millions around the world, the show remains one of the brand’s biggest drawcards and provides a welcome distraction to recent controversies involving the resignation of CEO Jan Singer and chief marketing officer Ed Razek’s controversial comments on transgender models. Now in its 23rd year, there’s been many iconic and memorable moments over the years. Here are some of the standouts: THE FIRST SHOW The Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show has grown to become something of glamorous, extravagant proportions, but it wasn’t always that way. In fact, back in 1995 at the very first show, things were far more low key, demure and simplistic. THE ANTI-FUR HIJACK One of the more controversial incidents was during the 2002 show. Gisele Bündchen, a famous fur wearer, was in the midst of her walk when the runway was hijacked by anti-fur protesters from PETA. Bundchen continued to strut down the runway unfazed. ARIANA GRANDE GETS WHACKED BY A WING The origin of many a meme, singer Ariana Grande was in the midst of her performance at the 2014 show when she was unceremoniously whacked by angel wings care of Elsa Hosk. Her reaction says it all. TYRA BANKS’ FLAMENCO PERFORMANCE The show often features dancers during musical performances, but when it involves a model – an angel, no less – that’s all the more impressive. Tyra Banks opened the 2002 show with a dazzling flamenco that still gets talked about. SEAL AND HEIDI’S DUET They’re now divorced, but back in 2007 loved-up singer Seal and supermodel Heidi Klum treated viewers to a cringey duet no one asked for, performing Seal’s hit song, Amazing . Unfortunately, amazing it was not. Heidi should leave singing to the professionals. MIRANDA KERR’S ANGEL DEBUT She remains Australia’s first and only Victoria’s Secret angel - and Miranda Kerr’s debut at the 2006 Victoria’s Secret was a moment of national pride. Other Aussie models have made the cut for the Victoria’s Secret runway, but none has been made an angel. BELLA HADID AND THE WEEKND’S AWKWARD REUNION It’s bad enough bumping into an ex on the street, let alone down the runway. While the couple have since reunited, Bella Hadid and The Weeknd’s reunion during the 2016 show was far more frosty, to say the least. NAOMI CAMPBELL’S SURPRISE RETURN Arguably the biggest name to walk the Victoria’s Secret runway, supermodel Naomi Campbell made a surprise return during the 2005 show, having previously walked the show in the 1990s. THE JOINT FANTASY BRA Since 1996 the Fantasy Bra has been a focal point of the Victoria’s Secret Fashion Show, with Gisele Bündchen wearing the priciest Fantasy Bra to date – worth a cool $15 million – in 2000. In 2014 there was not one fantasy bra, but two, with seasoned angels and fellow Brazilians, Alessandra Ambrosio and Adriana Lima sharing the runway during a performance by Ed Sheeran. ADAM LEVINE’S CHEEKY KISS We all have our types. For Maroon 5 frontman Adam Levine, it comes in the form of Victoria’s Secret models. During his performance at the 2011 show, Levine gave his then-girlfriend Anne Vyalitsyna a surprise peck on the cheek, which makes for one of the more adorable moments in the show’s history. Not so adorable? The fact that he went on to date fellow VS models Nina Agdal and Behati Prinsloo (his now-wife, with whom he has two kids). MING XI’S TUMBLE Every model’s worse nightmare became an unfortunate reality for Chinese model Ming Xi during last year’s show in Shanghai when she took a dramatic tumble. Ever the professional, she quickly composed herself for a smooth recovery. That said, she hasn’t walked since. THE 2006 OPENER In what was one of the most glitzy and glamorous shows to date, the 2006 opener featured a performance of Sexy Back by popstar Justin Timberlake, with hundreds of dancers on a floor-to-ceiling structure. It made for a true showstopper. WHAT TO EXPECT AT THIS YEAR’S SHOW With performances by Bebe Rexha, The Chainsmokers, Halsey, Kelsea Ballerini, Rita Ora, Shawn Mendes, Leela James and The Struts, this year’s show is shaping up to be particularly music-orientated. There’s an influx of local talent with not one but five Australian models to feature, including rising model Duckie Thot, Shanina Shaik, Kelly Gale, Alannah Walton and Subah Koj. Greek designer Mary Katrantzou will also feature a designer capsule collection in the show. As usual, A-listers will flock to the show. YOUR CHANCE TO GET IN FASHION’S FRONT ROW Want to join the A-listers in the front row at a fashion show? You could get a taste of the fashionable high life with Visit Victoria’s Front Row Melbourne , a year long competition offering everyday Australians the chance to live like an A-lister at the state’s leading events – including next year’s Virgin Australia Melbourne Fashion Festival and Melbourne Food and Wine Festival. Enter for your chance to win four front row seats at the VAMFF runway with VIP pre-show access passes, two twin-share rooms at QT Melbourne with hotel transfers, a personalised styling session, gift bags, seats at the Bank of Melbourne World’s Longest Lunch for the Melbourne Food and Wine Festival, a $750 dining package at Supernormal and four return airfares to Melbourne with airport transfers. For more information, visit frontrowmelbourne.com . Add your comment to this story To join the conversation, please log in. Don't have an account? Register Join the conversation, you are commenting as Logout ‘I wouldn’t even s*** that’: What you missed on Wentworth Wentworth does WikiLeaks in the third episode of the new season, as the Foxtel drama welcomes a new face. And there’s drama for Reb and Lou. Warning: Spoilers. Cocaine Cassie trades nude snaps for cash Convicted South Australian drug smuggler “Cocaine Cassie” is swapping nude photos with men in Australia for cash while serving out the remainder of her sentence on parole in Colombia. Membership About Us Contact Us Our News Network Our Partners Our Apps