 The Sydney Morning Herald The Sydney Morning Herald Premium More This was published 2 years ago Scientists spot a cosmic vampire - and watch it explode By Liam Mannix This blinding explosion shows the moment a small star detonates into a supernova, one of the largest explosions in the universe. On the right of this digital artists-impression, you can see a white dwarf. This small, ancient star has captured a large young star in its gravity, and is leaching its fuel. But the dwarf sucks too much, gathering so much fuel that it explodes under its own weight. This explosion is known as a supernova, and is one of the most powerful events in the universe. The explosion happened in another galaxy about 170 million light-years away; in February the light finally reached Earth after travelling for 170 million years. Luckily, we had telescopes in place to spot it. From Earth, the explosion shone a brilliant blue, an indication the supernova reached billions of degrees in temperature. “It is,” said Dr Brad Tucker, “a very, very massive event”. Dr Tucker, an astronomer at the Australian National University, was part of a team of 130 international scientists who have spent  months studying data and images from the star’s explosion, captured by telescopes around the world. Supernovas, among the most powerful explosions in the galaxy, are exceedingly rare. Astronomers knew they could be caused when two white dwarfs – ancient superheavy stars that have run out of fuel and been compressed by gravity to about the size of our planet – slammed into each other. ANU astronomy professor Dr Brad Tucker. Credit: Sitthixay Ditthavong But they suspected there was another trigger. A single white dwarf might prey on another, younger star, sucking its material away. At some point, the white dwarf might gain so much mass it became unable to support itself. And then, it was theorised, it would explode. This white dwarf's fate seemed to confirm that theory, Dr Tucker said. Like a nuclear bomb, the supernova produced a huge shockwave that raced through space ahead of the explosion itself. Through their telescopes, the astronomers spotted that shockwave hit the white dwarf’s neighbouring star. The shockwave was strong enough to “shove it out of the way,” says Dr Tucker. “It won’t cause the other star to blow up, but it will mess it up.” Scientists will use the recording of the star’s death to study how supernovas form and ignite. There are many unanswered questions, says Dr Tucker. The find is published Saturday in The Astrophysical Journal Letters and The Astrophysical Journal . Liam Mannix Liam is The Age and The Sydney Morning Herald's science reporter Most Viewed in National From our partners The Sydney Morning Herald Our Sites Classifieds The Sydney Morning Herald Products & Services Copyright © 2021