 motoring news Hyundai i30 N is News Corp’s Car of the Year In a David and Goliath battle a surprising newcomer is victorious, with one key ingredient landing the knock-out blow. The reason this car wins our Car of the Year revealed. News Corporation Car of the Year announced... News Corporation Car of the Year announced The 2018 Hyundai i30N, News Corporation's Car of the Year. Picture: Thomas Wielecki Source:Supplied A giant killer from South Korea has taken out this year’s News Corp Car of the Year award. The i30 N is Hyundai’s first attempt at building a high-performance hatchback and it has managed to leapfrog revered names such as the Subaru WRX and Volkswagen Golf GTI. The hatch has a race-car style set-up, allowing you to adjust the car’s suspension, steering, throttle response and exhaust note on the run. It’s the type of tech you see on high-end German luxury performance cars with six-figure price tags, but the i30 N starts from less than $40,000 plus on-roads. The i30 N is Hyundai’s first attempt at building a high-performance hatchback. Picture: Thomas Wielecki Source:Supplied “If BMW did a front-drive performance hatch, it would be like this,” judge Bill McKinnon said. That’s no coincidence, as Hyundai poached the head of BMW’s performance division a couple of years ago to develop a range of sportier cars. The i30 N was developed in Korea but honed on Germany’s famed Nurburgring racetrack. It’s a watershed moment for the Korean maker, which started out in the eighties as cheap and cheerful transport for the budget buyer and came of age when the standard i30 hatch won our Car of the Year award in 2007. “It’s a car that will still be talked about in 10 years’ time,” judge Iain Curry said. The i30N beat a high-quality field of nine other finalists, narrowly edging the excellent Subaru Forester SUV in the final vote. The Mazda 6 was third. Second place went to the Subaru Forester, a pioneer of the SUV craze sweeping the country. Picture: Thomas Wielecki Source:Supplied This year’s field was dominated by SUVs, which accounted for six of the 10 finalists, reflecting the trend away from traditional hatchbacks and sedans. SUV sales overtook passenger car sales last year and the gap has widened since. Their popularity has led to fierce competition among the 50 or so car brands and buyers are reaping the rewards. In the first year since the shutdown of the local car industry, this year’s Car of the Year was a cosmopolitan affair. South Korea had the most entrants in the field with three, while Japan had two. Sweden, France, Germany, Czech Republic and the United States had one each. The Mazda 6 was third in the final vote. Picture: Thomas Wielecki. Source:Supplied A tie-breaker was needed to separate the i30 N and the excellent Forester, which has more safety technology than some cars twice its price. The Forester, a pioneer of the SUV craze sweeping the country, has a camera that scans the driver’s face and can tell whether their eyes are on the road. If they look at a phone in their lap, it will sound an alarm. It also has cameras that scan the road ahead for cyclists and pedestrians and will slam on the brakes if it senses an imminent collision. In the end, the deciding factor was Hyundai’s willingness to back its product. The i30 N comes with a five-year warranty that — in a world first — is valid even if you use it on a racetrack. trending in technology Comments Add your comment to this story To join the conversation, please Log in . Don't have an account? Sign up Join the conversation, you are commenting as Logout MORE IN motoring Why sales of new Toyota have skyrocketed New way kids can learn to drive Fast and Furious car up for auction Mazda’s new Toyota HiLux rival revealed Beloved cult car makes surprise return A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING: We collect information about the content (including ads) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and other sites. Find out more about our policy and your choices, including how to opt-out. Nationwide News Pty Limited Copyright © 2021. All times AEDT (GMT +11). Powered by WordPress.com VIP