 hook ups & break ups Megan Fox confirms Shia LaBeouf romance on Transformers set After years of speculation, Megan Fox has finally confessed to having a secret real life romance with one of her on-screen love interests. Megan Fox confirms Shia LaBeouf romance on Transformers set. Picture: AP Source:AP It has been more than a decade since the first Transformers film was released and now actress Megan Fox is finally spilling the beans on her secret romance with co-star Shia LaBeouf. Appearing on Watch What Happens Live With Andy Cohen on Thursday, Fox played “Plead the Fifth” and was asked about a 2011 interview LaBeouf gave in which he said they’d dated while on set of the action film. “I mean I would confirm that it was romantic,” Fox said on the Bravo show. “I love him. I’ve never been really quiet about that. I love him.” Co-stars Megan Fox and Shia LaBeouf has a real-life romance when playing love interests on Transformers . Picture: AP Source:AP Cohen then prodded the New Girl star further, asking: “So it was an on-set romance that didn’t go anywhere afterward?” “Yeah,” she replied. This revelation was the first time that Fox has publicly addressed having a romantic relationship with LaBeouf. Megan Fox and Shia Labeouf in s scene from Transformers . Source:News Limited Fox, who was fired from Transformers franchise after making negative comments about director Michael Bay, is now married to Beverly Hills 90210 star Brian Austin Green. The couple share three sons together, Noah, 5, Bodhi, 4, and Journey, 1. LaBeouf sparked a romance this year with singer-songwriter FKA twigs following his divorce from actress Mia Goth. Megan Fox and Brian Austin Green wed in 2010. Source:Supplied Though Fox and Green have been married since 2010, the couple has had their ups and downs. Most recently, they’ve been blasted by Green’s ex, Vanessa Marcil, who claims they won’t allow the son she shares with Green to see him or his half-brothers. Why these celeb marriages stood the test of time... Why these celeb marriages stood the test of time This article originally appeared in the New York Post and was republished with permission. trending in entertainment MORE IN celebrity life Photo raises question over star’s marriage Cardi’s X-rated reason for taking back ex Star ‘embarrassed’ by kissing photos Lily James’ awkward video amid affair Star’s stunning comments about cheating A NOTE ABOUT RELEVANT ADVERTISING: We collect information about the content (including ads) you use across this site and use it to make both advertising and content more relevant to you on our network and other sites. Find out more about our policy and your choices, including how to opt-out. Nationwide News Pty Limited Copyright © 2021. All times AEDT (GMT +11). Powered by WordPress.com VIP