 news voices & in depth living regions more about stuff stuff family Witness' terror as man jumps from Auckland Harbour Bridge A desperate witness yelled "no, don't do it" before a man leaped from the Auckland Harbour Bridge. Do you know more about this? Email newstips@stuff.co.nz The man was taken to hospital after surviving the jump about 7am on Thursday. A police spokeswoman said the man made his way to the shore where he was transported to hospital to be checked over, she said. St John spokeswoman Beverley Tse said the man was transferred to Auckland City Hospital in a moderate condition around 7.30am. Matt Albert-Wihone was driving to work about 7am when he saw the man climb over the bridge's barrier and leap into the water. Traffic at the time was normal with people going at 80kmh, he said. "All of a sudden, the back door of the car in front of us swings open and next thing I see is a guy stepping out and rolling down the side of the lane, just missing me as I hit the brakes," Albert-Wihone said. "I looked up, he had climbed over the barrier and was about to leap. Desperately, I shouted 'no, don't do it' and he was gone." Albert-Wihone looked over the side of the bridge, expecting to see someone floating but he saw the man swimming away "as if he was in a pool going for a summer dip", he said. The man had been in the car with two of his friends and Albert-Wihone was told by one of them that they were taking the man to the hospital because he had taken "something" and "was on a bad trip", he said. After the man jumped, his friends were "real concerned about him – you could tell by the look on their faces", Albert-Wihone said. Once the shock wore off, Albert-Wihone quickly phoned emergency services. A police spokesman said reports of the man being under the influence of drugs was not information that had been confirmed by police. According to the New Zealand Transport Agency, the bridge reaches 64 metres above the water at its highest point. Stuff most popular Breaking news? © 2021 Stuff Limited