 Amazon's Black Friday sale extends well beyond Black Friday The darkness comes anew It's November, and you know what that means: an overwhelming mass of deals and discounts on games and gaming hardware as part of the annual post-Thanksgiving deal frenzy that is Black Friday. Black Friday itself has ceased to be a meaningful delineation of the experience, and now functions as a sort of third-act opening to an extended period of discounts and deals from every retailer going, of which the largest remains Amazon. The uber-retailer has announced that its Black Friday deals will start a week earlier, on Friday 16th, will continue until Monday 26th, the day formerly known as Cyber Monday. As it was last year, there'll be daily deals for the whole ten days with lighting deals on assorted products. With no new console hardware on the horizon this year, expect imaginative combinations of clearance packages and bundles along with discounts on current top-priced consoles the Xbox One X and PS4 Pro . If you've resisted a Switch until now then there'll probably be some tempting bundles for that too, although swingeing price cuts seem unlikely. Expect decent, if short-lived discounts on some of 2018's biggest games, although probably  not for Red Dead Redemption 2 - GTA 5 remained stubbornly high-priced for years after release, although the game's success means it's sure to appear as a tempting addition to existing bundles and offers. The outlook for PC gamers is brighter, with the arrival of the new NVIDIA 2080 sure to herald a fire-sale clearance of earlier, lesser graphics cards. Digital Foundry's guide to the best gaming graphics card should guide your choices in this regard. As in previous years, Eurogamer will be maintaing an eye on the various offers over the course of the week, highlighting the best Black Friday deals for PS4 , Xbox and Nintendo . Sometimes we include links to online retail stores. If you click on one and make a purchase we may receive a small commission. For more information, go here . Jump to comments (16) About the author Eurogamer staff Contributor  Related Thousands of World of Warcraft Classic players descended upon a single server to get a fresh levelling experience - and it was absolute chaos Hell spawn. Take-Two's CEO reckons we're "ready" for $70 video games "We're here to captivate and engage consumers, and if we do that then monetisation follows.” Digital Foundry Inside Dinosaur Planet - examining Rare's recently recovered 'lost' N64 game A closer look at the project that would become Star Fox Adventures on GameCube. Feature Animal Crossing has a neat hidden joke about a Leonardo mystery that is still being debated The Da Vinci Coda. Feature Music Week: The many ways of making music in games (and what they mean) Welcome to a week of articles about music and games. You may also enjoy... Super Nintendo World finally opens to public this month It's-a theme park. Feature Music Week: The many ways of making music in games (and what they mean) Welcome to a week of articles about music and games. Phasmophobia's latest update means ghosts can open doors and follow your voice when hunting you down "This update now puts the game into a much more stable state." Square Enix bans almost 6000 players for real-money trading in Final Fantasy 14 "Players should take care to steer clear of any activity that violates the Terms of Service." Gogeta SS4 is coming to Dragon Ball FighterZ later this week Plus Dragon Ball Z: Kakarot will receive its final DLC, Trunks: The Warrior of Hope, in "summer 2021". Comments (16) Comments for this article are now closed. Thanks for taking part! Advertisement Buy things with globes on them And other lovely Eurogamer merch in our official store! Subscribe to The Eurogamer.net Daily The 10 most popular stories of the day, delivered at 5pm UK time. Never miss a thing. Bad puns and video games since 1999. This site © 2020 Gamer Network Limited, a ReedPop company. All Rights Reserved. No part of this site or its content may be reproduced without the permission of the copyright holder. Explore Helpful links Across Europe ReedPop Sign in Connect with Facebook New in town?