 Red Dead Redemption 2 players have been sending abuse to a real person called Colm O'Driscoll He's reaching the end of his tether. Things can get tricky if you're unfortunate enough to share the same name as a controversial figure - especially if using the same name as that person on Twitter. Cases of mistaken identity are nothing new - take, for instance, the poor soul named John Lewis who regularly receives customer complaints about queues in a certain popular retail shop. But times can be particularly tough if you share the name of a hated antagonist in the most popular video game of the year - and this is exactly what's happened to Colm O'Driscoll, a chap from Ireland who's gotten caught up in Red Dead Redemption 2 mania. Since the game's release, O'Driscoll (the real one) has received multiple threatening messages on social media from players pretending he's the infamous villain of Red Dead Redemption 2. Although they're likely made in jest, some are quite alarming and take the trolling a little too far. There are spoilers and offensive language ahead, pardner. O'Driscoll has shared screenshots of one conversation via Twitter, which is bad enough, but he's also shown us a variety of other messages received primarily through Instagram. Some are fairly harmless - such as "you damn O'Driscoll", but others use inappropriate language and 'joke' that he's on their "list of n***** to shoot on sight". O'Driscoll told Eurogamer he "[doesn't] even have a PlayStation or an Xbox". When I asked O'Driscoll about this bizarre and rather worrying twist of fate, he said he assumed it was "just online trolls having fun". "I find the whole thing kinda funny, but the messages are starting to get annoying," O'Driscoll added. "A little part of me worries that some of these people are so emotionally invested in the game that they're starting to lose perception of what's real and what isn't." If you're somehow out of the Red Dead loop, Colm O'Driscoll is the leader of your rival gang in the game. The antagonism between the player's side (Dutch's gang) and the O'Driscolls kicks off within the first few minutes of Red Dead Redemption 2's narrative and O'Driscoll gang members will frequently shoot you when you're trying to explore the world. Cursing the O'Driscolls is definitely one way to roleplay the game, but sending hate messages to a stranger on the internet is probably taking it a little far. And indeed, O'Driscoll (again, the real one) told me he's had to start blocking messages from strangers on Instagram due to the influx of Red Dead Redemption 2 references. When I asked if he found some of the messages alarming, he said: "A little! Just because I don't know anything about the people who are sending them. But I'm hoping they're all just joking and having fun." So if you're wanting to vent your annoyance the next time an O'Driscoll boy shoots your horse - maybe try screaming into the endless void of Twitter rather than the real O'Driscoll's DMs. It doesn't all revolver 'round you. Sometimes we include links to online retail stores. If you click on one and make a purchase we may receive a small commission. For more information, go here . Jump to comments (110) More about Red Dead Redemption 2 About the author Emma Kent Reporter													 | GoneEFK Emma was Eurogamer's summer intern in 2018 and we liked her so much we decided to keep her. Now a fully-fledged reporter, she loves asking difficult questions, smashing people at DDR and arguing about, well, everything. Related Hogwarts Legacy dev resigns after YouTube channel backlash "I have nothing but good things to say about the game, the dev team, and WB Games." Digital Foundry Digital Foundry explains how a clever programmer cut GTA Online load times by 70% And he's petitioning Rockstar to add his changes to the game. Hogwarts Legacy will reportedly have "trans-inclusive" character creator And its developers have pushed for a transgender character. Monster Hunter Rise confirmed for PC Dual blades. Everything announced in tonight's PlayStation State of Play FF7! SIFU! FFAF! Etc. You may also enjoy... Feature Avengers' Kamala Khan is this year's most important hero Ms. Marvelous. GTA 5 will launch on PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X in 2021 Standalone GTA Online free on PS5 for three months. Feature The storm chaser of Red Dead Redemption 2 The horse bolted. GTA 5 cheats: PS4, Xbox, PC cheats list and how to enter all cheats, phone codes and console commands All GTA 5 cheats for every platform, in one place. GTA 5 money and stock market assassinations - BAWSAQ, LCN, Lester missions and how to earn money fast in GTA 5 story mode How to get rich quick in GTA 5's single-player story mode. Comments (110) Comments for this article are now closed. Thanks for taking part! Advertisement Buy things with globes on them And other lovely Eurogamer merch in our official store! Subscribe to The Eurogamer.net Daily The 10 most popular stories of the day, delivered at 5pm UK time. Never miss a thing. Bad puns and video games since 1999. This site © 2020 Gamer Network Limited, a ReedPop company. All Rights Reserved. No part of this site or its content may be reproduced without the permission of the copyright holder. Explore Helpful links Across Europe ReedPop Sign in Connect with Facebook New in town?