 I'm a Celebrity 2018 line-up revealed - start date and presenters for ITV show It has been confirmed that Holly Willoughby will co-host alongside Declan Donnelly for 2018 Latest news email updates straight to your inbox It's November - and that means all TV fans are turning their attention to I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here! Strictly Come Dancing and The X Factor are reaching their business ends. So now it's high time to focus on our favourite Australian jungle-based reality show. This year, there's a fairly big change, which we're sure you're aware of. But the series continues to go from strength to strength with last year's launch being watched by a staggering 11.2million people. To put into perspective, that was a jaw-dropping 46 per cent audience share. Now, the 2018 series is fast approaching - and it's time to get excited! When does I'm a Celebrity start? I'm a Celebrity will return on Sunday, November 18 . Who is presenting I'm a Celebrity? It has been confirmed that Holly Willoughby will co-host alongside Declan Donnelly for 2018. I’m A Celebrity...Get Me Out Of Here! 2018 will be co-hosted by Declan Donnelly and Holly Willoughby, after Ant McPartlin pulled out of the show to focus on staying sober post-rehab. The start date for the show has been exclusively confirmed to Mirror Online as Sunday 18 November ! Holly and Dec will both be taking their families halfway around the world to Australia for the next six weeks. Holly is taking her husband Dan Baldwin and their three young kids with her and is thought to have made that part of her contract before she signed on the dotted line. Dec will also be taking his wife, Ali Astall, and their newborn daughter, Isla to stay with him in Oz. Holly Willougby Who is heading into the jungle? As always with I'm a Celebrity, some stars' names are described as being "confirmed" before the show starts - though ITV bosses tend not to confirm anything beforehand. However, we can say that some names are more likely than others, based on how often their names have been mentioned and how they've reacted to the news themselves. Katya Jones  Professional dancer Katya Jones has some free time on her hands following her early exit from Strictly Come Dancing. After winning the show in 2017, Katya only made it as far as the Halloween special this year with celebrity partner Seann Walsh. The pair were kicked off the show just weeks after their kiss-gate scandal. Strictly viewing figures went through the roof following their passionate display, so ITV bosses could be hoping for a similar effect if Katya signs on the dotted line. But honestly, it’s not looking likely because her Strictly commitments will still keep her busy until Christmas as she continues to help out with choreography and group dances. Seann Walsh  Seann has also been tipped for a place on this year's I'm A Celeb line-up after boosting viewing figures on Strictly following his involvement in the kiss-gate scandal. Bookies have stacked the odds of them making a joint appearance to 20/1. He’s also denied the reports but there’s still plenty of time for him to change his mind. Emily Atack  The Inbetweeners actress was rumoured to be part of the line-up earlier this summer, after reportedly going into talks with ITV. She also had a rumoured fling with, the apparently very popular, Seann Walsh and fans and TV bosses will be hoping she spills the beans on what really happened between them back in 2016. Read More Related Articles Stephanie Waring  The Hollyoaks star has admitted she’s keen to give the jungle a go. "I've always wanted to do the jungle," She told the Manchester Evening News. "I'm scared of everything but I'd like to be in Australia. "There are no pressures from the outside world, no TVs and no phones and I think it's a real test of inner strength which has always appealed to me." Alexandra Cane  She failed to find love on Love Island but could she do a Katie Price and Peter Andre and find love in the jungle instead? She likens herself to Lara Croft and thinks she would win everyone meals in the camp. Frankie Bridge  After her husband took part in the 2016 series, Frankie admitted she'd love to enter the jungle too. "I think now Wayne's done it and he loved it and he said he would do it again, it kind of makes me feel positive that I would enjoy it," she told The Mirror. She’s no stranger to reality TV herself - she was a hit on Strictly Come Dancing in 2014 but crashed out of Celebrity MasterChef kitchen 2018 in the early rounds, so don’t expect her to be Head Chef if she does enter the jungle. Conor McGregor  Mixed martial arts fighter and boxer Conor McGregor is being tipped as a likely contender for the show after he lost his much hyped recent fight. The Irishman was beaten by Russian Khabib Nurmagomedov and because of his injuries he has been suspended for a month by the UFC and ordered not to fight. And now bookies have cut the odds that Conor, also known as The Notorious, will go into the jungle. Nick Knowles  If the rumours are true, the DIY SOS host is one of the most expensive signings to date. Nick has previously talked about going into the jungle, telling Lorraine Kelly: “I think it would be quite fun to do because of all the trials, I quite fancy having a go at that. I’d rock the hat. “I get asked every year and I’ve always said I wouldn’t do it but who knows? “I got a little boy who needs looking after and if it comes to it I’ll never say never. “ Nadiya Hussain  I present to you, the designated Head Chef. Great British Bake Off winner, Nadiya Hussain has spoken about being up for the challenge of camp life – in particular the eating aspect. She told Lorraine Kelly: “I grew up eating offal, so that would not bother me. Blitz it up and put it in a glass and I’ll have it”. She says she isn’t going in but we’re hoping she’s changed her mind! Rita Simmons  Rita was one of the most popular members of the Mitchell family in EastEnders until they killed her off at Christmas 2016. The soap star suffers with anxiety and ADHD, but a source said: “She’s hoping that some time away from her hectic lifestyle will help and that it will also provide a career boost and hopefully lead to her landing another big TV part.” Stephen Bear  He’s no stranger to reality TV and what’s the best way to get over a break-up? Go into the jungle of course! He recently confirmed he'd split up with his girlfriend, Instagram star Ellie O'Donnell so he can "focus on his career" and then he posted a cryptic message about returning to TV with a big contract. “I’m on my way to central London now, got some really exciting news.” "I’m going up there to sign a contract to one of the biggest shows I think I’ve done to date. The audience is probably 10 times bigger. It’s like a bus, it all just comes at once. “I would tell you what show it is, but I’m not allowed.” Coleen Nolan  She’s currently taking a break from spotlight following relentless trolling over a row with Kim Woodburn on the lunchtime chat show. But winning lots of meals for the camp could be what she needs to make her comeback. Sam Smith  The singer has left his fans convinced that he’s Australia-bound after tweeting is love for camping Taking to Twitter, he wrote: "I wanna go camping so badly at the moment. No idea why." It got his fans very excited, with some of them believing that the reason behind his sudden outdoorsy craving is that he's signed up for the ITV reality show. Now, he may just be going on a camping trip to Wales but we can hope! Danny Dyer  He was a hit on Celebrity Gogglebox and now we could get to see him round the campfire. The Eastenders actor admitted on Good Evening Britain that he loves all forms of reality TV: "It is an instant thing at the moment and it is a career...you can earn loads of dough and get loved and adored for it." Nigel Farage  He reportedly turned down a £1million opportunity in 2016 so he could concentrate on running UKIP and he’s been rumoured for the jungle for the last two years. But the speculation has increased once again after the former UKIP leader refused to rule it out during a chat with GMB temporary host Jeremy Kyle. "It is rumoured that - come tax payment time - I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!, you're number one on the wish list. "How much would it take? Half a million, a million, what?" said Jeremy. Farage said: "I'm not for sale at the moment. Once we're a free independent country charting our own course and I'm completely out of the grubby world of politics, who knows what I might do?" Might be a while yet then. Lucy Fallon  The Corrie star has had a year of hell with her character Bethany Platt's abusive relationship - and she could be having a much-needed break in the jungle. The 22-year-old told the Mirror: "I think I'd be good at the Jungle. I like to challenge myself and that's the most challenging show you can do." Kieran Hayler  Fresh from his marriage to Katie Price, Kieran could be good company for Seann Walsh round the campfire. The 30-year-old cheated on Katie Price with her best friend Jane Pountney and their kids' nanny Nikki Brown. A source said: "He knows Katie would be furious if he went in and that she'd probably be voting for him to do the worst tasks. But he wants to show the public he's a real bloke and isn't scared of challenges." Where is I'm A Celebrity filmed? The first series of the show was filmed on a smaller site at King Ranch, near Tully, Queensland, with the open air studio built beside a fast moving creek. Since the second series, the programme has been filmed in Springbrook National Park, near Murwillumbah, New South Wales, Australia. What happened in 2016 and 2017? Scarlett Moffatt was favourite to win from the start in 2016. And when she was crowned queen of the jungle in the I'm A Celebrity final, Brummies tweeted that she'd been their number one from the start and that she deserved to win. The Gogglebox star beat comedian Joel Dommett and Emmerdale's Adam Thomas to the top position. In 2017, Made In Chelsea's Georgia Toffolo was crowned the Queen of the Jungle in 2017. Georgia, who is known as Toff, said after winning: "I don’t know what to say. Obviously, I didn’t think anyone would like me, never mind… sorry, I’m really taken aback. "Thank you so much, I don’t know what to say, I’m really shocked!" Follow us Follow us