 Victoria Beckham responds to Spice Girls reunion tour announcement The singer and fashion designer won't be joining the reformed group on their UK tour in June Victoria Beckham has wished her former bandmates well following the announcement that she won’t be joining the Spice Girls on their summer 2019 UK tour. The reunited pop group will return to the stage in June for six shows across the UK, with the band set to visit the likes of Edinburgh, Bristol, and Glasgow on the tour. They’ll wrap up the string of dates with a huge gig at Wembley Stadium on June 15 – tickets for all of the dates will go on sale at 10:30am on Saturday, and they’ll be available here. While Geri Horner, Mel B, Emma Bunton and Mel C will all perform on the dates, Beckham has decided not to join the group for their first live shows since a one-off performance at the closing ceremony of the 2012 London Olympics. Taking to Instagram to comment on the tour announcement, Beckham said that she wished her bandmates “so much love and fun as they go back on tour next year.” “Today marks a special day for the girls as they announce the first tour dates since we performed together in 2012!” she wrote on Instagram.  Today marks a special day for the girls as they announce the first tour dates since we performed together in 2012! I won't be joining my girls on stage again but being in the Spice Girls was a hugely important part of my life and I wish them so much love and fun as they go back on tour next year. I know they will put on an amazing show and the fantastic fans past and present are going to have a wonderful time! X vb #spicegirls #friendshipneverends A post shared by Victoria Beckham (@victoriabeckham) on Nov 5, 2018 at 7:25am PST  “I won’t be joining my girls on stage again but being in the Spice Girls was a hugely important part of my life and I wish them so much love and fun as they go back on tour next year,” she continued. “I know they will put on an amazing show and the fantastic fans past and present are going to have a wonderful time!” In a press release that came with the original announcement of the Spice Girls’ new tour dates, Beckham gave a similar statement on her absence. “Being in the Spice Girls was a hugely important part of my life and I wish my girls so much love and fun as they go back on tour, I know they will put on an amazing show and the fantastic fans past and present are going to have a wonderful time!”  Yesterday’s big announcement was met with widespread delight among fans of the Spice Girls – including Adele , who told her followers on Instagram that she was “ready” for the reunion. The world's defining voice in music and pop culture since 1952. Join Our Mailing List © 2021 NME is a member of the media division of BandLab Technologies.