 NEWS... BUT NOT AS YOU KNOW IT SpaceX’s Starman has now gone beyond Mars Share this with Starman has probably put more miles on his cherry red Tesla Roadster in the last nine months than any other car in history. The private space company has reported this week that it’s plucky test pilot has now passed Mars – which is 54.6 million kilometers (33.9 million miles) away. Cruising through the cosmos with ‘Don’t Panic’ written on the dashboard, Starman was SpaceX’s test dummy for its Falcon Heavy rocket launch back in February . And now it’s passed Mars, the next stop is (of course) the restaurant at the end of the universe. Starman’s current location. Next stop, the restaurant at the end of the universe. pic.twitter.com/Ty5m8IjJpE — SpaceX (@SpaceX) November 3, 2018  SpaceX CEO Elon Musk said that the reason for putting Starman into space was that it was more fun than the typical payload dummy that space companies use to test their rockets. The extra publicity for his other company, Tesla, didn’t hurt either. According to an orbit-modelling study, Starman will swing back past Earth in 2091, coming within a few hundred thousand kilometers of our planet. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web
						browser that supports HTML5
							video The research team behind the study estimate that the Roadster will slam into either Earth or Venus in the next few tens of millions of years. There’s a 6% chance of it colliding with Earth and a 2.5% chance of it smashing into Venus. Until then, Starman is going to continue its road trip through the galaxy with David Bowie’s 1969 hit ‘Space Oddity’ blaring out into the noiseless vacuum of space. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web
						browser that supports HTML5
							video Sign Up for News Updates Get your need-to-know
latest news, feel-good stories, analysis and more Not convinced? Find out more » Share this with China's Tianwen-1 spacecraft sends back breathtaking high resolution images of Mars How to blur your Zoom background This rocky, volcanic exoplanet may be a candidate for alien life How one couple made their culinary creations into a full-time career Cats are just as disloyal as we always suspected, study confirms Best smartwatch 2021: Which is the right watch for you? Cuttlefish passes cognitive test meant for human children Covid-19 can starve brain of oxygen and lead to ‘mind fog’ side effect Folding Microsoft Duo phone and Baby Yoda make this week’s Lust List Adorable footage of Archie at the beach in new life with Harry and Meghan 'Big step to freedom': PM 'hopeful' schools reopening will work Meghan: Kate made me cry before wedding Footage of the night Meghan says she told Harry she was suicidal More Stories