 No more rate hikes by RBI? This is what has come as a savior for loan takers If status quo is the case, then your loan takers can rejoice as banks will not be in situation to make hike in lending rates. When the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) decided to maintain status quo in repo rate during the latest monetary policy in October, many analysts predicted some more shocks and expressed that a rate hike situation has still not abated. RBI has aggressively hiked policy repo rate from June to August 2018 policy, making it difficult for citizens to borrow or pay back EMIs on various forms of loans. Policy repo rate currently stands at 6.50% in India. Many had predicted RBI to make another hike in last policy, on the back of weakening rupee and boiling crude oil prices. However, RBI decided to maintain a muted approach, and it stood firm on its course as an inflation trajectory central bank. Interestingly, the situation has been changing and looks like RBI may as not announce another rate hike in upcoming polic - the situation is slightly better now than what it was in September to October months. This time it would be crude oil prices, that will act as a savior for RBI in not taking a chance for a rate hike in upcoming policy. According to an SBI research report, there has been a significant shift in one of key risks to inflation. Brent crude prices have now declined to less than $70 per barrel (bbl). Crude prices which rose from $63/bbl in Feb’18 to $86/bbp in Oct’18 have started to decline recently. In the past one month, crude prices declined by around $16/bbl as some nations get waivers to import oil from Iran, as well as signs that other OPEC members will pump more to offset any supply gap. Dr Soumya Kanti Ghosh, Group Chief Economic Adviser of SBI said, “We believe that the decline in oil price might continue. Even our analysis of global growth vis-à-vis oil prices suggest that since 2012, oil prices in the first half are always greater than or equal to the second half of a year. With the IMF revising its global growth projections downwards, there is every reason to be optimistic.” However, Ghosh adds,  “the worry is that the US recovery in terms of the number of months is also pretty close to the historical peak of 120 months. So by all historical evidence, we might be looking at global growth slowdown in the future and oil could be the barometer.” In SBI’s views, the decline in oil prices will also help the CPI inflation to remain moderate at 3.5% for the next couple of months before reaching around 4% by Mar’19. For October, we expect inflation at between 3.5-3.6%. Furthermore, inflation may be close to 3% for November or a tad lower. There is continued deceleration in food prices particularly in rural areas. The MSP pass-through is negligible. “The Government needs to ensure the procurement plan is implemented aggressively ahead of the Kharif season,” says SBI. Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation rose gradually to 3.77% during the month of September 2018 slightly higher compared to 3.69% of the previous month. Also, the latest number was higher from 3.28% in the same month of previous year. Meanwhile, India's Consumer Food Price Index (CFPI) inched up 0.51% in September compared to 0.29% in August 2018 and 1.25% in September 2017. Today, the CSO will present, CPI numbers for the month of October along with the IIP data for September 2018 month. Talking about October CPI data, Shilan Shah, Senior India Economist at Capital Economics said, “Consumer price inflation is likely to have eased in October following a renewed drop in food inflation. This may prove enough to keep the RBI on the side-lines in its meeting next month. But with core inflation likely to remain elevated for a while yet, we think the tightening cycle still has a little bit further to run.” Shah says, “Our forecast is that CPI inflation will have dropped back in October, to 3.6% y/y. The data are due to be released on Monday 12th November, and will be the last that are available to the RBI before its next policy meeting.” Shah also pointed out the current battle between RBI and government. Shah believes that,  growing evidence of the government attempting to exert influence over the central bank presents a significant risk to the outlook for core inflation and, by extension, policy rates. “The RBI has had success in anchoring inflation expectations over the past five years. Any erosion of independence couldpermanently reverse this trend, affecting spending and saving decisions and wage negotiations and ultimately push up actual inflation,” adds Shah. In October 2018 policy, RBI lowered its CPI inflation outlook by projecting it at  4.0 per cent in Q2:2018-19, 3.9-4.5 per cent in H2 and 4.8 per cent in Q1:2019-20, with risks somewhat to the upside. Excluding the HRA impact, CPI inflation is projected at 3.7 per cent in Q2:2018-19, 3.8 - 4.5 per cent in H2 and 4.8 per cent in Q1:2019-20. Well, exactly what call RBI takes in upcoming policy will be keenly watched. For now inflation is seen easing down further now that crude oil prices are coming down. So, what will it be? RBI may well announce yet another status quo. If status quo is the case, then your loan takers can rejoice as banks will not be in situation to make hike in lending rates. Repo is referred to as repurchase option, which comes as a contract provided by a bank to RBI for availing overnight loans by giving eligible securities like Treasury Bills with a commitment that they will purchase the security back at a predetermined price. Hence, the interest rate charged on this repo transaction is called repo rate. However, the higher repo rate may not have an immediate impact on banks and hence your loan - banks usually opt for loan from RBI after analysing their liquidity position and cost of funds before increasing the deposit rates and lending rates. If there is a need of funds, then banks will begin by passing their repo rate burden on you by raising lending rates. It needs to be noted that, home loans and other floating rate loans are the ones which get highly impacted when RBI hikes repo rate. This time it would be crude oil prices, that will act as a savior for RBI in not taking a chance for a rate hike in upcoming policy. According to an SBI research report, there has been a significant shift in one of key risks to inflation. Brent crude prices have now declined to less than $70 per barrel (bbl). Crude prices which rose from $63/bbl in Feb’18 to $86/bbp in Oct’18 have started to decline recently. In the past one month, crude prices declined by around $16/bbl as some nations get waivers to import oil from Iran, as well as signs that other OPEC members will pump more to offset any supply gap. Dr Soumya Kanti Ghosh, Group Chief Economic Adviser of SBI said, “We believe that the decline in oil price might continue. Even our analysis of global growth vis-à-vis oil prices suggest that since 2012, oil prices in the first half are always greater than or equal to the second half of a year. With the IMF revising its global growth projections downwards, there is every reason to be optimistic.” However, Ghosh adds,  “the worry is that the US recovery in terms of the number of months is also pretty close to the historical peak of 120 months. So by all historical evidence, we might be looking at global growth slowdown in the future and oil could be the barometer.” In SBI’s views, the decline in oil prices will also help the CPI inflation to remain moderate at 3.5% for the next couple of months before reaching around 4% by Mar’19. For October, we expect inflation at between 3.5-3.6%. Furthermore, inflation may be close to 3% for November or a tad lower. There is continued deceleration in food prices particularly in rural areas. The MSP pass-through is negligible. “The Government needs to ensure the procurement plan is implemented aggressively ahead of the Kharif season,” says SBI. Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation rose gradually to 3.77% during the month of September 2018 slightly higher compared to 3.69% of the previous month. Also, the latest number was higher from 3.28% in the same month of previous year. Meanwhile, India's Consumer Food Price Index (CFPI) inched up 0.51% in September compared to 0.29% in August 2018 and 1.25% in September 2017. Today, the CSO will present, CPI numbers for the month of October along with the IIP data for September 2018 month. Talking about October CPI data, Shilan Shah, Senior India Economist at Capital Economics said, “Consumer price inflation is likely to have eased in October following a renewed drop in food inflation. This may prove enough to keep the RBI on the side-lines in its meeting next month. But with core inflation likely to remain elevated for a while yet, we think the tightening cycle still has a little bit further to run.” Shah says, “Our forecast is that CPI inflation will have dropped back in October, to 3.6% y/y. The data are due to be released on Monday 12th November, and will be the last that are available to the RBI before its next policy meeting.” Shah also pointed out the current battle between RBI and government. Shah believes that,  growing evidence of the government attempting to exert influence over the central bank presents a significant risk to the outlook for core inflation and, by extension, policy rates. “The RBI has had success in anchoring inflation expectations over the past five years. Any erosion of independence couldpermanently reverse this trend, affecting spending and saving decisions and wage negotiations and ultimately push up actual inflation,” adds Shah. In October 2018 policy, RBI lowered its CPI inflation outlook by projecting it at  4.0 per cent in Q2:2018-19, 3.9-4.5 per cent in H2 and 4.8 per cent in Q1:2019-20, with risks somewhat to the upside. Excluding the HRA impact, CPI inflation is projected at 3.7 per cent in Q2:2018-19, 3.8 - 4.5 per cent in H2 and 4.8 per cent in Q1:2019-20. Well, exactly what call RBI takes in upcoming policy will be keenly watched. For now inflation is seen easing down further now that crude oil prices are coming down. So, what will it be? RBI may well announce yet another status quo. If status quo is the case, then your loan takers can rejoice as banks will not be in situation to make hike in lending rates. Repo is referred to as repurchase option, which comes as a contract provided by a bank to RBI for availing overnight loans by giving eligible securities like Treasury Bills with a commitment that they will purchase the security back at a predetermined price. Hence, the interest rate charged on this repo transaction is called repo rate. However, the higher repo rate may not have an immediate impact on banks and hence your loan - banks usually opt for loan from RBI after analysing their liquidity position and cost of funds before increasing the deposit rates and lending rates. If there is a need of funds, then banks will begin by passing their repo rate burden on you by raising lending rates. It needs to be noted that, home loans and other floating rate loans are the ones which get highly impacted when RBI hikes repo rate. Dr Soumya Kanti Ghosh, Group Chief Economic Adviser of SBI said, “We believe that the decline in oil price might continue. Even our analysis of global growth vis-à-vis oil prices suggest that since 2012, oil prices in the first half are always greater than or equal to the second half of a year. With the IMF revising its global growth projections downwards, there is every reason to be optimistic.” However, Ghosh adds,  “the worry is that the US recovery in terms of the number of months is also pretty close to the historical peak of 120 months. So by all historical evidence, we might be looking at global growth slowdown in the future and oil could be the barometer.” In SBI’s views, the decline in oil prices will also help the CPI inflation to remain moderate at 3.5% for the next couple of months before reaching around 4% by Mar’19. For October, we expect inflation at between 3.5-3.6%. Furthermore, inflation may be close to 3% for November or a tad lower. There is continued deceleration in food prices particularly in rural areas. The MSP pass-through is negligible. “The Government needs to ensure the procurement plan is implemented aggressively ahead of the Kharif season,” says SBI. Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation rose gradually to 3.77% during the month of September 2018 slightly higher compared to 3.69% of the previous month. Also, the latest number was higher from 3.28% in the same month of previous year. Meanwhile, India's Consumer Food Price Index (CFPI) inched up 0.51% in September compared to 0.29% in August 2018 and 1.25% in September 2017. Today, the CSO will present, CPI numbers for the month of October along with the IIP data for September 2018 month. Talking about October CPI data, Shilan Shah, Senior India Economist at Capital Economics said, “Consumer price inflation is likely to have eased in October following a renewed drop in food inflation. This may prove enough to keep the RBI on the side-lines in its meeting next month. But with core inflation likely to remain elevated for a while yet, we think the tightening cycle still has a little bit further to run.” Shah says, “Our forecast is that CPI inflation will have dropped back in October, to 3.6% y/y. The data are due to be released on Monday 12th November, and will be the last that are available to the RBI before its next policy meeting.” Shah also pointed out the current battle between RBI and government. Shah believes that,  growing evidence of the government attempting to exert influence over the central bank presents a significant risk to the outlook for core inflation and, by extension, policy rates. “The RBI has had success in anchoring inflation expectations over the past five years. Any erosion of independence couldpermanently reverse this trend, affecting spending and saving decisions and wage negotiations and ultimately push up actual inflation,” adds Shah. In October 2018 policy, RBI lowered its CPI inflation outlook by projecting it at  4.0 per cent in Q2:2018-19, 3.9-4.5 per cent in H2 and 4.8 per cent in Q1:2019-20, with risks somewhat to the upside. Excluding the HRA impact, CPI inflation is projected at 3.7 per cent in Q2:2018-19, 3.8 - 4.5 per cent in H2 and 4.8 per cent in Q1:2019-20. Well, exactly what call RBI takes in upcoming policy will be keenly watched. For now inflation is seen easing down further now that crude oil prices are coming down. So, what will it be? RBI may well announce yet another status quo. If status quo is the case, then your loan takers can rejoice as banks will not be in situation to make hike in lending rates. Repo is referred to as repurchase option, which comes as a contract provided by a bank to RBI for availing overnight loans by giving eligible securities like Treasury Bills with a commitment that they will purchase the security back at a predetermined price. Hence, the interest rate charged on this repo transaction is called repo rate. However, the higher repo rate may not have an immediate impact on banks and hence your loan - banks usually opt for loan from RBI after analysing their liquidity position and cost of funds before increasing the deposit rates and lending rates. If there is a need of funds, then banks will begin by passing their repo rate burden on you by raising lending rates. It needs to be noted that, home loans and other floating rate loans are the ones which get highly impacted when RBI hikes repo rate. Get Latest Business News , Stock Market Updates and Videos ; Check your tax outgo through Income Tax Calculator and save money through our Personal Finance coverage. Check Business Breaking News Live on Zee Business Twitter and Facebook . Subscribe on YouTube . LATEST NEWS MTAR IPO: Know allotment finalisation status, listing date and how to check subscription of shares Maharashtra budget: Tax increased on liquor Petrol-diesel rates, LPG cylinder price hike! Rs 21 lakh crore collected from excise duty, cess, Mallikarjun Kharge reveals SBI loan against shares: Check eligibility, minimum and maximum loan amount, processing fee and other details 25 per cent DA for central government employs from April? What does this 7th Pay Commission benefit mean, how it helps pensioners? EXPLAINED In chat with Anil Singhvi, analyst Vikas Sethi picks Nalco, L and T Finance as top buys for big gains Yes Bank Share price: Target price Rs 14, Anand Rathi maintains Sell rating | Earning, valuation and key risks Easy Trip Planners IPO: Motilal Oswal recommends Subscribe to the IPO No external pressure: Parineeti Chopra on replacing Shraddha Kapoor in 'Saina' Petrol price near Rs 100? Forget that, here is something that will give you 100-km for only Rs 7 Latest Trending Updates Trending Topics Follow us on Partner Sites By continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. You can find out more by clicking this link zeenews.india.com understands that your privacy is important to you and we  are committed for being transparent about the technologies we use.  This  cookie policy explains how and why cookies and other similar technologies may  be stored on and accessed from your device when you use or visit zeenews.india.com  websites that posts a link to this Policy (collectively, “the sites”). This  cookie policy should be read together with our Privacy Policy . By continuing to browse or  use our sites, you agree that we can store and access cookies and other  tracking technologies as described in this policy. What are Cookies and Other Tracking  Technologies? A cookie  is a small text file that can be stored on and accessed from your device when  you visit one of our sites, to the extent you agree.  The other tracking  technologies work similarly to cookies and place small data files on your  devices or monitor your website activity to enable us to collect information  about how you use our sites. This allows our sites to recognize your device  from those of other users on our sites. The information provided below about  cookies also applies to these other tracking technologies. How do our sites use Cookies and Other Tracking Technologies? Zeenews.com  use cookies and other technologies to store information in your web browser or  on your mobile phone, tablet, computer, or other devices (collectively  "devices") that allow us to store and receive certain pieces of  information whenever you use or interact with our zeenews.india.com applications  and sites. Such cookies and other technologies helps us to identify you and  your interests, to remember your preferences and to track use of zeenews.india.com  We also use cookies and other tracking technologies to control access to  certain content on our sites, protect the sites, and to process any requests  that you make to us. We also  use cookies to administer our sites and for research purposes, zeenews.india.com  also has contracted with third-party service providers to track and analyse  statistical usage and volume information from our site users. These third-party  service providers use persistent Cookies to help us improve user experience,  manage our site content, and analyse how users navigate and utilize the sites. First and Third-party Cookies First party cookies These are those cookies that belong to us and which we place on your  device or are those set by a website that is being visited by the user at the  time (e.g., cookies placed by zeenews.india.com) Third-party cookies Some  features used on this website may involve a cookie being sent to your computer  by a third party. For example, if you view or listen to any embedded audio or  video content you may be sent cookies from the site where the embedded content  is hosted. Likewise, if you share any content on this website through social  networks (for example by clicking a Facebook “like” button or a “Tweet” button)  you may be sent cookies from these websites. We do not control the setting of  these cookies so please check the websites of these third parties for more  information about their cookies and how to manage them. We use the following types of cookies: Persistent Cookies We use  persistent cookies to improve your experience of using the sites. This includes  recording your acceptance of our cookie policy to remove the cookie message  which first appears when you visit our site. Session Cookies Session  cookies are temporary and deleted from your machine when your web browser  closes. We use session cookies to help us track internet usage as described  above. You may  refuse to accept browser Cookies by activating the appropriate setting on your  browser. However, if you select this setting you may be unable to access  certain parts of the sites. Unless you have adjusted your browser setting so that  it will refuse cookies, our system will check if cookies can be captured when  you direct your browser to our sites. The data collected by the sites and/or through Cookies that may be  placed on your computer will not be kept for longer than is necessary to fulfil  the purposes mentioned above. In any event, such information will be kept in  our database until we get explicit consent from you to remove all the stored  cookies. We categorize cookies as follows: Essential Cookies These cookie are essential to our site in  order to enable you to move around it and to use its features. Without these  essential cookies we may not be able to provide certain services or features  and our site will not perform as smoothly for you as we would like. These  cookies, for example, let us recognize that you have created an account and  have logged in/out to access site content. They also include Cookies that  enable us to remember your previous actions within the same browsing session  and secure our sites. Analytical/Performance Cookies These cookies are used by us or by our  third-party service providers to analyse how the sites are used and how they  are performing. For example, these cookies track what content are most  frequently visited, your viewing history and from what locations our visitors  come from. If you subscribe to a newsletter or otherwise register with the  Sites, these cookies may be correlated to you. Functionality Cookies These cookies let us operate the sites in  accordance with the choices you make. These cookies permit us to "remember  you” in-between visits. For instance, we will recognize your user name and  remember how you customized the sites and services, for example by adjusting  text size, fonts, languages and other parts of web pages that are alterable,  and provide you with the same customizations during future visits. Advertising Cookies These cookies collect information about your activities on our sites as  well as other sites to provide you targeted advertising. We may also allow our  third-party service providers to use cookies on the sites for the same purposes  identified above, including collecting information about your online activities  over time and across different websites. The third-party service providers that  generate these cookies, such as, social media platforms, have their own privacy  policies, and may use their cookies to target advertisement to you on other  websites, based on your visit to our sites. How do I refuse or withdraw my consent to the use of  Cookies? If you  do not want cookies to be dropped on your device, you can adjust the setting of  your Internet browser to reject the setting of all or some cookies and to alert  you when a cookie is placed on your device. For further information about how  to do so, please refer to your browser ‘help’ / ‘tool’ or ‘edit’ section for  cookie settings w.r.t your browser that may be Google Chrome, Safari, Mozilla  Firefox etc. Please  note that if your browser setting is already setup to block all cookies  (including strictly necessary Cookies) you may not be able to access or use all  or parts or functionalities of our sites. If you  want to remove previously-stored cookies, you can manually delete the cookies  at any time from your browser settings. However, this will not prevent the  sites from placing further cookies on your device unless and until you adjust  your Internet browser setting as described above. For more  information on the development of user-profiles and the use of  targeting/advertising Cookies, please see www.youronlinechoices.eu if you are located in Europe or www.aboutads.info/choices if in the United States. Contact us If you  have any other questions about our Cookie Policy, please contact us at: If  you require any information or clarification regarding the use of your personal  information or this privacy policy or grievances with respect to use of your  personal information, please email us at response@zeemedia.esselgroup.com.