 The Age The Age Premium More This was published 2 years ago Elite police unit refused to help arrest Gargasoulas before massacre By Cameron Houston & Chris Vedelago  Replay     The role of an elite police unit in the 2017 Bourke Street massacre is expected to come under intense scrutiny after it ignored repeated pleas from colleagues to help arrest James Gargasoulas in St Kilda and Elsternwick almost nine hours before the tragedy. When the Critical Incident Response Team finally became involved, its heavily-armed officers approached Gargasoulas in traffic just outside the CBD with their guns drawn, but he escaped after pushing his then-girlfriend from the car onto the road and speeding off. Gargasoulas was found guilty on Tuesday of six counts of murder and 27 counts of reckless conduct endangering life after ploughing into dozens of pedestrians as he drove a stolen car through the centre of Melbourne at 1.33pm on January 20 last year. James Gargasoulas did doughnuts outside Flinders Street Station minutes before he murdered six people in the Bourke Street massacre. A coronial inquest is now expected to examine a decision by CIRT to ignore requests from patrol officers to intercept Gargasoulas soon after he was identified as the suspect in a violent stabbing. In June, Supreme Court judge Lex Lasry instructed The Age to retract a story that revealed CIRT was asked to arrest Gargasoulas about 4.30am when he was parked in a St Kilda street and there was minimal risk to the public. Justice Lasry ruled the material had the potential to influence the jury in a mental competency hearing for Gargasoulas, but the story can now be published following the conviction. Police began searching for Gargasoulas at 2.20am on January 20, about an hour after he allegedly stabbed his brother, Angelo, multiple times in the face, neck and chest outside a housing commission flat in Windsor. Angelo had been rushed to The Alfred hospital and was not expected to survive. Police alerts sent during the manhunt warned officers thatGargasoulas posed a serious risk to the public and had a history of high-speed car chases. Gargasoulas was already facing charges in relation to an assault and two high-speed chases in stolen cars in November 2016 and January 2017.  Replay     He had also eluded local police just days before, by speeding up Fitzroy Street and running a string of red lights at St Kilda junction. At 4.30am, police asked CIRT to help arrest Gargasoulas. CIRT is a specialised team of heavily armed officers that responds to potentially high-risk incidents involving dangerous or armed offenders considered beyond the capabilities of regular police. But the request was refused by the senior CIRT officer on duty because local police were unable to confirm whether Gargasoulas was armed. Patrol officers told CIRT that Gargasoulas should be considered armed because the weapon used in the stabbing had not been recovered. At 4.40am, police traced Gargasoulas’ phone to Greeves Street, St Kilda, where he appeared to be parked in the stolen 1995 Holden Commodore that would wreak havoc later that day. Officers made a formal request for CIRT to use their unmarked vehicles to help box in Gargasoulas’ car. CIRT again denied the request because police could not be sure Gargasoulas was armed. It also said the team was not responsible for vehicle intercepts and that it could not perform an arrest unless the target was already contained within a police cordon. The unit missed another opportunity to apprehend Gargasoulas about 5am when he stopped at a McDonald's restaurant in Elsternwick. When CIRT answered the call for help later that day, its officers tried to apprehend Gargasoulas in traffic near the intersection of Flinders Street and Wurundjeri Way in South Wharf. They approached Gargasoulas with their guns drawn, but Gargasoulas kicked his then-girlfriend Akiir Muo from the car onto the road, before speeding off. The night team leader’s refusal to intervene before dawn, when the risks of collateral damage were at a minimum, is understood to have later caused ructions in the CIRT leadership. The CIRT team was ultimately responsible for ending the Bourke Street rampage by shooting Gargasoulas near William Street. Much scrutiny of the police response has focused on the hours immediately before the rampage, when Gargasoulas traversed Melbourne in the stolen car, and one officer sent him a series of text messages pleading with him to surrender . Police have claimed it was too dangerous to intercept Gargasoulas during the four-hour on-and-off chase. Officers missed or aborted several opportunities to stop Gargasoulas at 8.04am, when he was seen outside the scene of the earlier stabbing in Windsor; 10am when his car was stuck in traffic in South Yarra; 11.30am on Clarendon Street in Southbank; and midday when he parked in Yarraville for almost an hour before entering the CBD about 1.30pm. Victoria Police has refused to discuss CIRT's function for operational reasons and declined to comment further because Gargasoulas’ case was before the courts and coroner. chouston@fairfaxmedia.com.au Cameron Houston Senior Crime Reporter Chris Vedelago Chris Vedelago is an investigations reporter for The Age with a special interest in crime and justice. Most Viewed in National From our partners The Age Our Sites Classifieds The Age Products & Services Copyright © 2021