 FOLLOW ON Advertisement 'It was moving so fast': Ireland investigating pilots' reports of mysterious 'bright lights' Share: Text: The Irish Aviation Authority is investigating several pilots’ reports of mysterious bright lights travelling quickly over Ireland. According to an audio recording posted on the flight tracking website Airlive – which is run by aviation enthusiasts – the pilot of British Airways flight #BA94 from Montreal to London can be heard speaking to an air traffic controller in Shannon, Ireland about an unidentified object she saw on Friday morning. The pilot is heard asking Shannon Air Traffic Control if there are any military exercises occurring in the air space she’s flying through. When the controller responds that there aren’t any, the pilot describes what she witnessed. “OK. It was moving so fast,” she replied. “It came up on our left-hand side and rapidly veered to the north. We saw a bright light and then it disappeared at a very high speed.” The British Airways pilot said she didn’t think they were on a collision course with the unknown object. “We were just wondering what that could have been,” she explained. Following that report, another pilot from Virgin Airlines flight #VS76 from Orlando, Fla. to Manchester chimed in to let air traffic control know that he too saw the lights. He described it as a “meteor or another object making some kind of re-entry.” The pilot also said he thought it appeared to be “multiple objects” following the same trajectory. “[They were] very bright from where we were,” he said. “Very interesting, that one.” According to Airlive, there was another pilot who also reported seeing the unidentified object. On Tuesday, the Irish Aviation Authority confirmed it was looking into “reports from a small number of aircraft” about “unusual air activity.” In its statement, the authority added that the reports would be investigated “under the normal confidential occurrence investigation process.” With files from The Associated Press Related Stories Related Links Share: More Sci-Tech Stories Facebook communities peddling COVID-19 misinformation have grown by 48 per cent: report At Dubai airport, travellers' eyes become their passports Drones vs hungry moths: Dutch use hi-tech to protect crops White House warns of 'active threat' from Microsoft email hackers Drones vs hungry moths: Dutch use hi-tech to protect crops Twitter founder's auction of a tweet draws US$2 million bid Top Videos CTV National News for March 7: Big rift in The Royal Family Prince Harry, Meghan break the silence in tell-all interview Sask. snowboarder safely lands after dangling from chairlift CTVNews.ca Top Stories Revealing Meghan and Harry interview shakes Royal Family Bombshells from royal interview: The most dramatic disclosures from Prince Harry and Meghan Pattie Lovett-Reid: International Women's Day and we are not OK? 5 things to know for Monday, March 8, 2021 French aviation billionaire, pilot die in helicopter crash COVID-19 survivors struggle with nightmares, anxiety and other PTSD symptoms, research shows Don't Miss Ont. man uses TikTok to give clues for hidden money Sport trading cards prices skyrocket during the pandemic Booming goose population a problem for Vancouver parks Advertisement MOST-WATCHED CTV National News for Sunday, March 7, 2021 Richard Berthelsen reacts to the interview CTV National News: Meghan, Harry tell-all 9 key moments for Prince Harry and Meghan The Climate Barometer Sign up for our weekly email newsletter delving into climate science and life on a changing planet. Canada's Most Trusted News. Download the CTV News app now. MOST-READ Bombshells from royal interview: The most dramatic disclosures from Prince Harry and Meghan Meghan and Harry interview with Oprah lays bare royal rift Biggest, fastest-known asteroid to pass by Earth later this month Elon Musk lost US$27 billion last week Use of this Website assumes acceptance of Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy © 2021 All rights reserved. Back to top