 FOLLOW ON Advertisement Wow airline takeover another blow to people seeking ultra-cheap flights The wing of an Icelandair flight is seen as it leaves Akureyi Airport in Akureyi, Iceland on Saturday, April 24, 2010. (AP / Carolyn Kaster) Share: Text: REYKJAVIK, Iceland -- For those hoping for ever cheaper fares on long-haul flights, this month's takeover of Icelandic airline Wow is not good news. The struggling airline, which specializes in ultra-cheap flights between North America and Europe, was taken over by Iceland's flagship carrier, Icelandair, for just $18 million. Its rescue is a reality check for an industry hoping to apply the budget flying model to long-haul routes. And for now it means that passengers from, say, Washington will likely have to pay more than the $99 teaser rates previously offered for the six and half-hour trip to the Icelandic capital, which serves as a stopover to mainland Europe. "It simply costs more than $99 to fly between continents and Wow air has not found ways around it," said Kristjan Sigurjonsson, editor of local travel news site Turisti. While Wow will continue as a separate brand for now, Sigurjonsson says it's unclear whether Icelandair will have it continue offering such low fares in an attempt to compete with Norwegian Air, which is offering cheap flights at a loss to gain market share. But for now, the numbers don't add up for budget long-haul flying. Part of the business model for low-cost flying across the Atlantic depends on getting cheaper airport slots, both by departing at odd hours and by flying to smaller cities in the United States. Wow flies to St Louis and Pittsburgh, for example. The low fares, in turn, mean planes are typically full. Wow flies across the Atlantic with single-aisle, narrow-body Airbus A321 jets. Being smaller than a widebody plane makes them easier to fill, an important consideration in keeping down costs per seat. They are also cheaper than two-aisle planes. Wow's jets are relatively new, meaning they are more fuel-efficient than some competitors' fleets. However, those savings have been squeezed in the past couple years as oil prices have risen. The U.S. benchmark for oil has risen 50 per cent from late 2016 to a peak of $75 in September this year, before easing back somewhat. For a budget airline like Wow, where margins are already tight, that means a direct hit to earnings. On top of that, wages have been rising sharply in Iceland, where its employees are based. Founded in 2012, the airline expanded fast to 37 destinations and reported up to 60 per cent annual growth in passenger numbers. Its revenue per passenger, however, has not kept up and fell by about 20 per cent in 2017, according to the last earnings report. About 70 per cent of Wow's passengers travel between Europe and North America. Combined with Icelandair, the airlines will carry about 3.8 per cent of transatlantic passengers, according to analysts at Icelandair. Experts say that what budget airlines like Wow lack is the big source of money from transatlantic flying: business travellers. The New York-London route is the most lucrative in the world, thanks to the amount of business travelling done between the two financial hubs. British Airways takes in a reported $1 billion a year between those cities alone. Budget airlines have been trying to tap that market. Wow created a new business-class scheme and in a presentation to investors this year it predicted that would help it make a profit this quarter. Norwegian Air has also offered "Premium class without the premium price," reportedly with modest success. But it remains to be seen whether companies booking trips will agree to pick budget airlines over established carriers that are often seen as more reliable because they have bigger fleets and deeper pockets. "The established airlines have loyalty programs that hold tight to the most lucrative clients," said Skarphedinn Steinarsson, former CEO of low-cost carrier IcelandExpress and the director of the Icelandic Tourist Board. "It takes longer to win this group over than the typical bargain-hunter." For now, it is the flagship carrier coming out on top. Wow founder and CEO Skuli Mogensen urged his staff Monday to "look at this as an opportunity to continue our journey now as a part of a much stronger group". The charismatic boss, who has in the past mocked Icelandair as "outdated" and used his image to represent the airline, acknowledge defeat with much understatement: "It was not part of the original game plan." Skuli Mogensen, founder and CEO WOW air, Iceland's only ultra low-cost airline, announced Thursday that the airline will begin service to Iceland from Toronto and Montreal in May 2016. (CNW Group/WOW air) Related Stories Share: More Business Stories Global shares mixed, oil prices up, technology stocks fall Claimed value of sleepy NY estate could haunt Trump French aviation billionaire, pilot die in helicopter crash Five things to watch for in the Canadian business world in the coming week Pattie Lovett-Reid: International Women's Day and we are not OK? 'Worse than Sept. 11, SARS and financial crisis combined': Tourism industry in crisis Top Videos CTV National News for March 7: Big rift in The Royal Family Prince Harry, Meghan break the silence in tell-all interview Sask. snowboarder safely lands after dangling from chairlift CTVNews.ca Top Stories Revealing Meghan and Harry interview shakes Royal Family Bombshells from royal interview: The most dramatic disclosures from Prince Harry and Meghan 5 things to know for Monday, March 8, 2021 COVID-19 survivors struggle with nightmares, anxiety and other PTSD symptoms, research shows EU regulator urges caution on Sputnik COVID-19 vaccine 'It's been a good week': Tam hopeful on vaccines as pandemic anniversary nears Don't Miss Ont. man uses TikTok to give clues for hidden money Sport trading cards prices skyrocket during the pandemic Booming goose population a problem for Vancouver parks Advertisement MOST-WATCHED CTV National News for Sunday, March 7, 2021 Richard Berthelsen reacts to the interview CTV National News: Meghan, Harry tell-all 9 key moments for Prince Harry and Meghan The Climate Barometer Sign up for our weekly email newsletter delving into climate science and life on a changing planet. Canada's Most Trusted News. Download the CTV News app now. MOST-READ Bombshells from royal interview: The most dramatic disclosures from Prince Harry and Meghan Meghan and Harry interview with Oprah lays bare royal rift Biggest, fastest-known asteroid to pass by Earth later this month Elon Musk lost US$27 billion last week Finances during the crisis Feds extending COVID-19 wage and rent subsidy until June CRA says 'rare' error in some tax slips lists repaid CERB as taxable income Pattie Lovett-Reid: The top 5 pandemic-related scams you need to know about Feds extending Canada Recovery Benefit eligibility by 12 weeks Use of this Website assumes acceptance of Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy © 2021 All rights reserved. Back to top